LOLITA
VLADIMIR NABOKOV

W eidenfeld AND N icolson
7 C ork Street L ondon w i

PAR T ONE

-

J

FOREWORD
‘ lolita , or the Confession of a White Widowed Male,' such were the
two titles under which the writer of the present note received the strange
pages it preambulates. ‘Humbert Humbert', their author, had died in legal
captivity, of coronary thrombosis, on November 16, 1952, afew days before
his trial was scheduled to start. His lawyer, my goodfriend and relation,
Clarence Choate Clark, Esq., now o f the District of Columbia bar, in
asking me to edit the manuscript, based his request on a clause in his client's
will which empowered my eminent cousin to use his discretion in all matters
pertaining to the preparation of ‘Lolita' for print. Mr Clark's decision
may have been influenced by the fact that the editor of his choice had just
been awarded the Poling Prize for a modest work {‘Do the Senses make
Sense?') wherein certain morbid states and perversions had been discussed.
My task proved simpler than either of us had anticipated. Save for the
correction of obvious solecisms and a careful suppression of afew tenacious
details that despite ‘H.H.5 's own efforts still subsisted in his text as sign­
posts and tombstones (indicative o f places or persons that taste would
conceal and compassion spare), this remarkable memoir is presented intact.
Its author's bizarre cognomen is his own invention; and, o f course, this
mask— through which two hypnotic eyes seem to glow— had to remain
unlifted in accordance with its wearer's wish. While ‘Haze* only rhymes
with the heroine's real surname, her first name is too closely interwound
with the inmostfibre of the book to allow one to alter it; nor (as the reader
ji, will perceivefor himself) is there anypractical necessity to do so. References
to ‘H.H.' 's crime may be looked up by the inquisitive in the daily papers
for September 1952; its cause and purpose would have continued to remain
a complete mystery, had not this memoir been permitted to come under my
]. reading lamp.
F
For the benefit of old-fashioned readers who wish tofollow the destinies'
of the ‘real' people beyond the ‘true' story, a few details may be given as
receivedfrom Mr ‘ Windmuller', of ‘Ramsdale', who desires his identity
suppressed so that ‘ the long shadow of this sorry and sordid business' should
not reach the community to which he is proud to belong. His daughter,
, 'Louise', is by now a college sophomore. ‘ Mona Dahl' is a student in Paris.
‘Rita' has recently married the proprietor of a hotel in Florida. Mrs

I|

*Richard F. Schiller’ died in childbed, giving birth to a stillborn girl, on
Christmas Day 1952, in Gray Star, a settlement in the remotest North­
west. ‘ Vivian DarkbloorrC has written a biography, ‘My Cue’ , to be
published shortly, and critics who have perused the manuscript call it her
best book. The caretakers of the various cemeteries involved report that no
ghosts walk.
Viewed simply as a novel, ‘Lolita? deals with situations and emotions
that would remain exasperatingly vague to the reader had their expression
been etiolated by means of platitudinous evasions. True, not a single
obscene term is to befound in the whole work; indeed, the robust philistine
who is conditioned by modern conventions into accepting without qualms a
lavish array of four-letter words in a banal novel will be quite shocked
by their absence here. If, however, for this paradoxical prude’s comfort, an
editor attempted to dilute or omit scenes that a certain type o f mind
might call ‘aphrodisiac5 {see in this respect the monumental decision
rendered December 6, 1933, by Hon John M . Woolsey in regard to
another, considerably more outspoken, book), one would have to forgo the
publication o f ‘Lolita’ altogether, since those very scenes that one might
ineptly accuse of a sensuous existence of their own are the most strictly
functional ones in the development of a tragic tale tending unswervingly
to nothing less than a moral apotheosis. The cynic may say that commercial
pornography makes the same claim; the learned may counter by asserting
that ‘Id. H I ’s impassioned confession is a tempest in a test tube; that at
least 12 per cent of American adult males— a ‘conservative1 estimate
according to Dr Blanche Schwarzmann {verbal communication)— enjoy
yearly, in one way or another, the special experience ‘Id.HI describes with
such despair; that had our demented diarist gone, in the fatal summer of
1947, to a competent psycho-pathologist, there would have been no disaster;
but then, neither would there have been this book.
This commentator may be excused for repeating what he has stressed
in his own books and lectures, namely that ‘offensive’ is frequently but a
synonymfor ‘unusual’; and a great work o f art is of course always original,
and thus by its very nature should come as a more or less shocking surprise. I
have no intention to glorify ‘H.H.’ No doubt, he is horrible, he is abject, he
is a shining example of moral leprosy, a mixture offerocity andjocularity
that betrays supreme misery perhaps, but is not conducive to attractiveness.
He is ponderously capricious. Many of his casual opinions on the people
and scenery of this country are ludicrous. A desperate honesty that throbs
through his confession does not absolve himfrom sins of diabolical cunning.

6

He is abnormal. He is not a gentleman. But how magically his singing
violin can conjure up a tendresse, a compassion for Lolita that makes us
entranced with the book while abhorring its author!
As a case history, £Lolitawill become, no doubt, a classic in psychiatric
circles. As a work of art, it transcends its expiatory aspects; and still more
important to us than scientific significance and literary worth, is the ethical
impact the book should have on the serious reader; for in this poignant
personal study there lurks a general lesson; the wayward child, the egotistic
mother, the panting maniac— these are not only vivid characters in a unique
story: they warn us of dangerous trends; they point out potent evils. ‘Lolita*
should make all of us—parents, social workers, educators— apply ourselves
with still greater vigilance and vision to the task of bringing up a better
generation in a safer world.
John Ray, Jr., Ph.D.
Wxdworth, Mass.

I
l o l i t a , li ght of my life, fire of m y loins. M y sin, my soul.
Lo-lee-ta: the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down
the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee. Ta.
She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four tC it fen in
one sock. She was Lola in slacks. She was Dolly at school.' She was
Dolores on the dotted line. But in my arms she was always Lolita.
Did she have a precursor? She did, indeed she did. In point o f
fact, there might have been no Lolita at all had I not loved, one
summer, a certain initial girl-child. In a princedom by the sea.
Oh when? About as many years before Lolita was born as my age
was that summer. You can always count on a murderer for a
fancy prose style.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, exhibit number one is what
the seraphs, the misinformed, simple, noble-winged seraphs,
envied. Look at this tangle of thorns.

2
i was born in 19 10 , in Paris. M y father was a gentle, easy­
going person, a salad of racial genes: a Swiss citizen, o f mixed
French and Austrian descent, with a dash of the Danube in his

veins. I am going to pass around in a minute some lovely, glossyblue picture-postcards. He owned a luxurious hotel on the
Riviera. His father and two grandfathers had sold wine, jewels
and silk, respectively. A t thirty he married an English girl,
daughter of Jerome Dunn, the alpinist, and grand-daughter of
two Dorset parsons, experts in obscure subjects— palaeopedology
and Aeolian harps, respectively. M y very photogenic mother died
in a freak accident (picnic, lightning) when I was three, and,
save for a pocket of warmth in the darkest past, nothing of her
subsists within the hollows and dells o f memory, over which, if
you can still stand my style (I am writing under observation), the
sun of my infancy had set: surely, you all know those redolent
remnants of day suspended, with the midges, about some hedge
in bloom or suddenly entered and traversed by the rambler, at
the bottom of a hill, in the summer dusk; a furry warmth, golden
midges.
M y mother’s elder sister, Sybil, whom a cousin o f my father’s
had married and then neglected, served in my immediate family
as a kind of unpaid governess and housekeeper. Somebody told
me later that she had been in love with my father, and that he
had lightheartedly taken advantage of it one rainy day and for­
gotten it by the time the weather cleared. I was extremely fond
of her, despite the rigidity— the fatal rigidity— of some of her
, rules. Perhaps she wanted to make of me, in the fullness of time,
a better widower than my father. Aunt Sybil had pink-rimmed
azure eyes and a waxen complexion. She wrote poetry. She was
poetically superstitious. She said she knew she would die soon
after my sixteenth birthday, and did. Her husband, a great
traveller in perfumes, spent most of his time in America, where
eventually he founded a firm and acquired a- bit of real estate.
I grew, a happy, healthy child in a bright world of illustrated
books, clean sand, orange trees, friendly dogs, sea vistas and
smiling faces. Around me the splendid Hotel M irana revolved as a
kind of private universe, a whitewashed cosmos within the blue
greater one that blazed outside. From the aproned pot-scrubber
to the flannelled potentate, everybody liked me, everybody petted
me. Elderly American ladies leaning on their caries listed toward
me like towers of Pisa. Ruined Russian princesses who could not
pay my father bought me„ expensive bonbons. He, mon cher petit

papa, took me out boating and biking, taught me to swim and dive
and water-ski, read to me Don Qyixote and Les Misirables, and I
adored and respected him and felt glad for him whenever I over­
heard the servants discuss his various lady-friends, beautiful arid
kind beings who made much o f me and cooed and shed precious
tears over my cheerful motherlessness.
I attended an English day school a few miles from home, and
there I played rackets and fives, and got excellent marks, and was
on perfect terms with schoolmates and teachers alike. The only
definite sexual events that I can remember as having occurred
before my thirteenth birthday (that is, before I first saw my little
Annabel) were: a solemn, decorous and purely theoretical talk
about pubertal surprises in the rose garden of the school with an
American kid, the son of a then celebrated motion-picture actress
whom he seldom saw in the three-dimensional world; and some
interesting reactions on the part of my organism to certain photo­
graphs, pearl and umbra, with infinitely soft partings, in Pichon’s
sumptuous La Beaute Humairte that I had filched from under a
mountain of marble-bound Graphics in the hotel library. Later, in
his delightful debonair manner, my father gave me all the in­
formation he thought I needed about sex; this was just before
sending me, in the autumn o f 1923, to a lycee in Lyon (where w e
were to spend three winters); but alas, in the summer o f that
year, he was touring Italy with Mme de R . and her daughter, and
I had nobody to complain to, nobody to consult.

3
Annabel wa s , like the writer, of mixed parentage: h alf
English, half-Dutch, in her case. I remember her features far less
distinctly today than I did a few years ago, before I knew Lolita.
There are two kinds of visual memory: one when you skilfully

recreate an image in the laboratory of your mind, with your eyes open (and then I see Annabel in such general terms as: ‘honeycoloured skin’, ‘thin arms’ , ‘brown bobbed hair’, ‘long lashes’,
‘big bright mouth’) ; and the other when you instantly evoke, with
shut eyes, on the dark innerside of your eyelids, the objective,
absolutely optical replica of a beloved face, a little ghost in
natural colours (and this is how I see Lolita).
Let me therefore primly limit myself, in describing Annabel, to
saying she was a lovely child a few months my junior. Her parents
were old friends of my aunt’s, and as stuffy as she. They had
rented a villa not far from Hotel Mirana. Bald brown M r Leigh
and fat, powdered Mrs Leigh (born Vanessa van Ness). How I
loathed them! At first, Annabel and I talked of peripheral affairs.
She kept lifting handfuls of fine sand and letting it pour through
her fingers. Our brains were tuned the way those of intelligent
European pre-adolescents were in our day and set, and I doubt if
much individual genius should be assigned to our interest in the
plurality of inhabited worlds, competitive tennis, infinity, solips­
ism and so on. The softness and fragility of baby animals caused
us the same intense pain. She wanted to be a nurse in some
famished Asiatic country; I wanted to be a famous spy.
All at once we were madly, clumsily, shamelessly, agonizingly
in love with each other; hopelessly, I should add, because that
frenzy of mutual possession might have been assuaged only by our
actually imbibing and assimilating every particle of each other’s
soul and flesh; but there we were, unable even to mate as slum
children would have so easily found an opportunity to do. After
one wild attempt we made to meet at night in her garden (of
which more later), the only privacy we were allowed was to be
out of earshot but not out of sight of the populous part of the
plage. There, on the soft sand, a few feet away from our elders, we
would sprawl all morning, in a petrified paroxysm o f desire, and
take advantage of every blessed quirk in space and time to touch
each other: her hand, half-hidden in the sand, would creep to­
ward me, its slender brown fingers sleepwalking nearer and nearer;
then, her opalescent knee would start, o a. lons cautious - w r>
sometimes a chance rampart built by younger children granted us
sufficient concealment to graze each other’s salty lips; these in­
complete contacts drove our healthy and inexperienced young

bodies to such a state of exasperation that not even the cool blue
water, under which we still clawed at each other, could bring
relief.
Among some treasures I lost during the wanderings of my adult
years, there was a snapshot taken by my aunt which showed
Annabel, her parents and the staid, elderly, lame gentleman, a
Dr Cooper, who that same summer courted my aunt, grouped
around a table in a sidewalk caf6. Annabel did not come out wed,
caught as she was in the act of bending over her chocolat glace, and
her thin bare shoulders and the parting in her hair were about all
that could be identified (as#|[ remember that picture) amid the
sunny blur into which her lost, loveliness graded; but I, sitting
somewhat apart from the rest, came out with a kind of dramatic
, conspicuousness: a moody, beetle-browed boy in a dark sport,
shirt and well-tailored white shorts, his legs crossed, sitting in
profile, looking away. That photograph was taken on the last day
, of our fatal summer and just a few minutes before we made our
second and final attempt to thwart fate. Under the flimsiest of
pretexts (this was our very last chance, and nothing really
mattered) we escaped from the cafe to the beach, and found a
desolate stretch of sand, and there, in the violet shadow of some
red rocks forming a kind of cave, had a brief session of avid
caresses, with somebody’s lost pair of sunglasses for only witness,
I was on my knees, and on the point of possessing my darling,
when two bearded bathers, the old man of the sea and his
brother, came out of the sea with exclamations o f ribald en­
couragement, and four months later she died of typhus in Corfu.

4
Ostler ''

'l'

wh af again and again through these miserable memories, and
latp asking myself, was it then, in the glitter of that remote
corner, thattV,e rift in my life began; or was my excessive desire

for that child only the first evidence of an inherent singularity?
When I try to analyse my own cravings, motives, actions and so
forth, surrender to assort of retrospective imagination which
feeds the analytic faculty with boundless alternatives and which
causes each visualized route to fork and re-fork without end in
the maddeningly complex prospect of my past. I am convinced,
however, that in a certain magic and fateful way Lolita began
with Annabel.
I also know that the shock of Annabel’s death consolidated the
frustration of that nightmare summer, made of it a permanent
obstacle to any further romance throughout the cold years o f my
youth. The spiritual and the physical had been blended in us with
a perfection that must remain incomprehensible to the matter-offact, crude, standard-brained youngsters of today. Long after her
death I felt her thoughts floating through mine. Long before we
met we had had the same dreams. We compared notes. W e found
strange affinities. The same June of the same year (1919) a stray
canary had fluttered into her house and mine, in two widely
separated countries. Oh, Lolita, hadjyow loved me thus!
I have reserved for the conclusion of my ‘Annabel’ phase the
account of our unsuccessful first tryst. One night, she managed to
deceive the vicious vigilance of her family. In a nervous and
slender-leaved mimosa grove at the back o f their villa we found a
perch on the ruins of a low stone wall. Through the darkness and
the tender trees we could see the arabesques of lighted windows
which, touched up by the coloured inks of sensitive memory,
appear to me now like playing cards— presumably because a
bridge game was keeping the enemy busy. She trembled and
twitched as I kissed the corner of her parted lips and the hot lobe
of her ear. A cluster of stars palely glowed above us, between the
silhouettes o f long thin leaves; that vibrant sky seemed as naked
as she was under her light frock. I saw her face in the sky, strangely
distinct, as if it emitted a faint radiance of its own. Her legs, her
Ipvely live legs, were not too close together, and when my hand
located what it sought, a dreamy and eerie expression, half­
pleasure, half-pain, came over those childish features. T
v*'
little higher than I, and whenever in her solitary e
1 le
led to kiss me, her head would bend with a sleepy,
keej
movement that was almost woeful, and her bare kn
sura

16

1

compressed my wrist, and slackened again; and her quivering
mouth, distorted by the acridity o f some mysterious potion, with
a sibilant intake of.breath came near to my face. She would try
to relieve the pain of love by first roughly rubbing her dry lips
against mine; then my darling would draw away with a nervous
toss of her hair, and then again come darkly near and let me feed
on her open mouth, while with a generosity that was ready to
offer her everything, my heart, my throat, my entrails, I gave her
to hold in her awkward fist the sceptre of my passion.
I recall the scent o f some kind of toilet powder— I believe she
stole it from her mothers Spanish maid— a sweetish, lowly,
musky perfume. It mingled with her own biscuity odour, and my
senses were suddenly filled to the brim; a sudden commotion in a
nearby bush prevented them from overflowing— and as we drew
away from each other, and with aching veins attended to what
was probably a prowling cat, there came from the house her
mother’s voice calling her, with a rising frantic note— and D r
Cooper ponderously limped out into the garden. But that mimosa
grove— the haze of stars, the tingle, the flame, the honey-dew,
and the ache remained with me, and that little girl with her sea­
side limbs and ardent tongue haunted me ever since— until at
last, twenty-four years later, I broke her spell by incarnating her
in another.

the days of my youth, as I look back on them, seem to fly away
from me in a flurry of pale repetitive scraps like those morning
snowstorms of used tissue paper that a train passenger sees
whirling in the wake of the observation car. In my sanitary re­
lations with women I was practical, ironical and brisk. W hile a
college student, in London and Paris, paid ladies sufficed me. M y

studies were meticulous and intense, although not particularly
fruitful. A t first, I planned to take a degree in psychiatry as many
manque talents do; but I was even more manque than that; a pecu­
liar exhaustion, I am so oppressed, doctor, set in; and I switched
to English literature, where so many frustrated poets end as pipesmoking teachers in tweeds. Paris suited me. I discussed Soviet
movies with expatriates. I sat with uranists in the Deux Magots.
I published tortuous essays in obscure journals. I composed
pastiches:
. . , Fraulein von K ulp
may turn, her hand upon the door;
I will not follow her. Nor Fresca. Nor
that Gull.
A paper of mine entitled ‘The Proustian theme in a letter from
Keats to Benjamin Bailey5 was chuckled over by the six or seven
scholars who* read it. I launched upon an ‘Histone abre'gee de la
poisie anglaise5for a prominent publishing firm, and then started to
compile that manual of French literature for English-speaking
students (with comparisons drawn from English writers) which
was to occupy me throughout the ’forties— and the last volume
of which was almost ready for press by the time of my arrest.
I found a job— teaching English to a group of adults in Auteuil.
Then a school for boys employed me for a couple of winters. Now
?*n then I took advantage of the acquaintances I had formed
among social workers and psychotherapists to visit in their com­
pany various institutions, such as orphanages and reform schools,
where pale ^ubescent girls with matted eyelashes could be stared
at in perfec *mpunity remindful of that granted one in dreams.
Now I wash to introduce the following idea. Between the age
limits of nine and fourteen there occur maidens who, to certain
bewitched travellers, twice or many times older than they, reveal
their true nature which is not human, but nymphic (that is,
demoniac); and these chosen creatures I propose to designate as
‘nymphetsh
It will be marked that I substitute time terms for spatial ones.
In fact, I would have the reader see ‘nine’ and ‘fourteen’ as the
boundaries— the mirrory beaches and rosy rocks— of an en­
chanted island haunted by those nymphets of mine and sur-

18

rounded by a vast, misty sea. Between those age limits, are all
girl-children nymphets? O f course not. Otherwise, we who are in
the know, we lone voyagers, we nympholepts, would have long
gone insane. Neither are good looks any criterion; and vulgarity,
or at least what a given community terms so, does not necessarily
impair certain mysterious characteristics, the fey grace, the elusive,
shifty, soul-shattering, insidious charm that separates the nymphet
from such coevals o f hers as are incomparably more dependent on
the spatial world of synchronous phenomena than on that in­
tangible island of entranced time where Lolita plays with her
likes. Within the same age limits the number o f true nymphets is
strikingly inferior to that o f provisionally plafn, or just nice, or
‘cute’, or even ‘sweet3and ‘attractive5, ordinary, plumpish, form­
less, cold-skinned, essentially human little girls, with tummies and
pigtails, who may or may not turn into adults of great beauty
(look at the ugly dumplings in black stockings and white hats
that are metamorphosed into stunning stars of the screen). A
normal man given a group photograph o f school girls or Girl
Scouts and asked to point out the eomeliest one will not neces­
sarily choose the nymphet among them. You have to be an artist
and a madman, a creature of infinite melancholy, with a bubble o f
hot poison in your loins and a super-voluptuous flame per­
manently aglow in your subtle spine (oh, how you have to cringe
and hide!), in order to discern at once, by ineffable signs— the
slightly feline outline of a cheekbone, the slenderness of a do\:>y
limb, and other indices which despair and shame and tears o f
tenderness forbid me to tabulate— the little deadly demon among
the wholesome children; she stands unrecognized by,them, and
unconscious herself of her fantastic power.
:
Furthermore, since the idea of time plays such a magic part in
the matter, the student should not be surprised to learn that there
must be a gap o f several years, never less than ten I should say,
generally thirty or forty, and as many as ninety in a few known
cases, between maiden and man to enable the latter to come
under a nymphet’s spell. It is a question of focal adjustment, o f a
certain distance that the inner eye thrills , to surmount, and a
certain contrast that the mind perceives with a gasp of perverse
delight. When I was a child and she was a child, my little
Annabel was no nymphet to me; I was her equal, a faunlet in my

19

own right, on that same enchanted island of time; but today, in
September 1952, after twenty-nine years have elapsed, I think I
can distinguish in her the initial fateful elf in my life. W e loved
each other with a premature love, marked by a fierceness that so
often destroys adult lives. I was a strong lad and survived; but
the poison was in the wound, and the wound remained ever open,
and soon I found myself maturing amid a civilization which
allows a man of twenty-five to court a girl of sixteen but not a
girl of twelve.
No wonder, then, that my adult life during the European
period of my existence proved monstrously twofold. Overtly, I
had so-called normal relationships with a number of terrestrial
women having pumpkins or pears for breasts; inside, I was con­
sumed by a hell furnace of localized lust for every passing
nymphet whom as a law-abiding poltroon I never dared approach.
The human females I was allowed to wield were but palliative
agents. I am ready to believe that the sensations I derived from
natural fornication were much the same as those known to normal
big males consorting with their normal big mates in that routine
rhythm which shakes the world. T he trouble was that those
gentlemen had not, and I had, caught glimpses of an incom­
parably more poignant bliss. The dimmest of my pollutive dreams
was a thousand times more dazzling than all the adultery the
most virile writer of genius or the most talented impotent might
imagine. M y world was split. I was aware of not one but two
sexes, neither of which was mine; both would be termed female
by the anatomist. But to me, through the prism of m y senses,
‘they were as different as mist and mast*. A ll this I rationalize
now. In my twenties and early thirties, I did not understand my
throes quite so clearly. While my body knew what it craved for,
my mind rejected my body’s every plea. One moment I was
ashamed and frightened, another recklessly optimistic. Taboos
strangulated me. Psycho-analysts wooed me with pseudolibera­
tions of pseudolibidoes. The fact that to me the only objects of
amorous tremor were sisters of Annabel’s, her handmaids and
girl-pages, appeared to me at times as a forerunner of insanity. At
other times I would tell myself that it was all a question of attitude,
that there was really nothing wrong in being moved to distraction
by girl-children. Let me remind my reader that in England, with

20

the passage of the Children and Young Persons A ct in 1933, the
term ‘girl-child5 is defined as ‘a girl who is over eight but under
fourteen years’ (after that from fourteen to seventeen, the statu­
tory definition is ‘young person’). In Massachusetts, US, on the
other hand, a ‘wayward child’ is, technically, one ‘between seven
and seventeen years of age’ (who, moreover, habitually associates
with vicious or immoral persons). Hugh Broughton, a writer of
controversy in the reign of James I, has proved that Rahab was a
harlot at ten years of age. This is all very interesting, and I dare
say you see me already frothing at the mouth in a fit; but no, I
am not; I am just winking happy thoughts into a little tiddle cup.
Here are some more pictures. Here is Virgil who could the nymphet sing in single tone, but probably preferred a lad’s peritoneum.
Here are two of K ing Akhnaten’s and Queen Nefertiti’s prenubile Nile daughters (that royal couple had a litter'o f six),
wearing nothing but many necklaces o f bright heads, relaxed on
cushions, intact after three thousand years, with their soft brown
puppybodies, cropped hair and long ebony eyes. Here are some
brides of ten compelled to seat themselves on the fascinum, the;
virile ivory in the temples o f classical scholarship. Marriage and
cohabitation before the age o f puberty are still not uncommon in
certain East Indian provinces. Lepcha old men of eighty copulate
with girls of eight, and nobody minds. After all, Dante fell madly
in love with his Beatrice when she was nine, a sparkling girleen,
painted and lovely, and bejewelled, in a crimson frock, and this
was in 1274, in Florence, at a private feast in the merry month
of May. And when Petrarch fell madly in love with his Laureen,
she was a fair-haired nymphet of twelve running in the wind, in
the pollen and dust, a flower in flight, in the beautiful plain as
descried from the hills of Vaucluse.
But let us be prim and civilized. Humbert Humbert tried hard
to be good. Really and truly, he did. He had the utmost respect
for ordinary children, with their purity and vulnerability, and
under no circumstances would he have interfered with the in­
nocence of a child, if there was the least risk o f a row. But how
his heart beat when, among the innocent throng, he espied a
demon child, ‘enfant charmante etfourbe\ dim eyes, bright lips, ten
years in jail if you only show her you are looking at her. So life
went. Humbert was perfectly capable of intercourse with Eve, but

it was Lilith he longed for. The bud-stage of breast development
appears early (10*7 years) in the sequence of somatic changes
accompanying pubescence. And the next maturational item
available is the first appearance of pigmented pubic hair (11*2
years). M y little cup brims with tiddles.
A shipwreck. An atoll. Alone with a drowned passenger’s
shivering child. Darling, this is only a game! How marvellous
were my fancied adventures as I sat on a hard park bench pre­
tending to be immersed in a trembling book. Around the quiet
scholar, nymphets played freely, as if he were a familiar statue or
part of an old tree’s shadow and sheen. Once a perfect little
beauty in a tartan frock, with a clatter, put her heavily armed foot
near me upon the bench to dip her slim bare arms into me and
tighten the strap of her roller skate, and I dissolved in the sun,
with my book for fig leaf, as her auburn ringlets fell all over her
skinned knee, and the shadow of leaves I shared pulsated and
melted on her radiant limb next to my chameleonic cheek.
Another time a red-haired school girl hung over me in the metro,
and a revelation of axillary russet I obtained remained in my
blood for weeks. I could list a great number of these one-sided
diminutive romances. Some of them ended in a rich flavour of
hell. It happened for instance that from my balcony I would
notice a lighted window across the street and what looked like a
nymphet in the act of undressing before a co-operative mirror.
Thus isolated, thus removed, the vision acquired an especially
keen charm that made me race with all speed toward my lone
gratification. But abruptly, fiendishly, the tender pattern of
nudity I had adored would be transformed into the disgusting
lamp-lit bare arm of a man in his underclothes reading his paper
by the open window, in the hot, damp, hopeless summer night.
Rope-skipping, hopscotch. That old woman in black who sat
down next to me on my bench, on my rack of joy (a nymphet
was groping under me for a lost marble), and asked if I had
stomach-ache, the insolent hag. Ah, leave me alone in my
pubescent park, in my mossy garden. Let them play around me
for ever. Never grow up.

6
apropos : i have often wondered what became o f those nym-

phets later? In this wrought-iron world o f criss-cross cause and
effect, could it be that the hidden throb I stole from them did not
affect their future? I had possessed her— and she never knew it. A ll
right. But would it not tell sometime later? Had I not somehow
tampered with her fate by involving her image in my voluptas?
Oh, it was, and remains, a source ->f great and terrible wonder.
I learned, however, what they l- joked like, those lovely, mad­
dening, thin-armed nymphets, when they grew up. I remember
walking along an animated street on a grey spring afternoon
somewhere near the Madeleine. A short slim girl passed me at a
rapid, high-heeled, tripping step, we glanced back at the same
moment, she stopped and I accosted her. She came hardly up to
my chest hair and had the kind of dimpled round little face French,
girls so often have, and I liked her long lashes and tight-fitting
tailored dress sheathing in pearl-grey her young body which still
retained— and that was the nymphic echo, the chill o f delight,
the leap in my loins— a childish something mingling with the
■ professionalfretillement of her small agile rump. I asked her price,
and she promptly replied with melodious silvery precision (a
bird, a very bird!) ‘'Cent. I tried to haggle but she saw the awful
lone longing in my lowered eyes, directed so far down at her
round forehead and rudimentary hat (a band, a posy); and with
one beat of her lashes: i Tant pis\ she said, and made as if to move
away. Perhaps only three years earlier I might have seen her
coming home from school! That evocation settled the matter. She
led me up the usual steep stairs, with the usual bell clearing the
way for the monsieur who might not care to meet another monsieur,
on the mournful climb to the abject room, all bed and bidet. As
usual, she asked at once for bfer petit cadeau, and as usual I asked
her name (Monique) and her age (eighteen). I was pretty well
acquainted with the banal way of streetwalkers. They all answer

23

‘dix-huif— a trim twitter, a note of finality and wistful deceit
which, they emit up to ten times per day, the poor little creatures.
But in Monique’s case there could be no doubt she was, if any­
thing, adding one or two years to her age. This I deduced from
many details of her compact, neat, curiously immature body.
Having shed her clothes with fascinating rapidity, she stood for a
moment partly wrapped in the dingy gauze of the window curtain
listening with infantile pleasure, as pat as pat could be, to an
organ-grinder in the dusk-brimming courtyard below. When I
examined her small hands and drew her attention to their grubby
fingernails, she said with a naive frown iOui, ce rCest pas bien’, and
went to the wash-basin, but I said it did not matter, did not
matter at all. With her brown bobbed hair, luminous grey eyes
and pale skin, she looked perfectly charming. Her hips were no
bigger than those of a squatting lad; in fact, I do not hesitate to
say (and indeed this is the reason why I linger gratefully in that
gauze-grey room of memory with little Monique) that among the
eighty or so grues I had had operate upon me, she was the only
one that gave me a pang of genuine pleasure. ‘ 7/ etait tnalin, celui
qui a invente ce truc-la\ she commented amiably, and got back into
her clothes with the same high-style speed.
I asked for another, more elaborate, assignment later the same
evening, and she said she would meet me at the corner cafe at
nine, and swore she had never pose un lapin in all her young life.
We returned to the same room, and I could not help saying how
very pretty she was to which she answered demurely: i Tu es bien
gentil de dire fa\ and then, noticing what I noticed too in the
mirror reflecting our small Eden— the dreadful grimace of
clenched-teeth tenderness that distorted my mouth— dutiful little
Monique (oh, she had been a nymphet all right!) wanted to know
if she should remove the layer of red from her lips avant qu’on se
couche in case I planned to kiss her. O f course, I planned it. I let
myself go with her more completely than X had with any young
lady before, and my last vision that night of long-lashed Monique
is touched up with a gaiety that I find seldom associated with any
event in my humiliating, sordid, taciturn love life. She looked
tremendously pleased with the bonus of fifty I gave her as she
trotted out into the April night drizzle with Humbert Humbert
lumbering in her narrow wake. Stopping before a window display

she said with great gusto: lJe vais m’acheter des basP and never
may I forget the way her Parisian childish lips exploded on ‘bas’ ,
pronouncing it with an appetite that all but changed the ‘a ’ into
a brief buoyant bursting ‘o ’ as in ‘ bot\
I had a date with her next day at 2.15 p.m. in my own rooms,
but it was less successful, she seemed to have grown less juvenile,
more of a woman overnight. A cold I caught from her led me to
cancel a fourth assignment, nor was I sorry to break an emotional
series that threatened to burden me with heart-rending fantasies
and peter out in dull disappointment. So let her remain, sleek,
slender Monique, as she was for a minute or two: a delinquent
nymphet shining through the matter-of-fact young whore.
M y brief acquaintance with her started a train of thought that
may seem pretty obvious to the reader who knows the ropes. A n
advertisement in a lewd magazine landed me, one brave day, in
the office of a Mile Edith who began by offering me to choose a
kindred soul from a collection of rather formal photographs in a
rather soiled album (‘Regardez-moi cette belle bruneP). When I
pushed the album away and somehow managed to blurt out m y
criminal craving, she looked as if about to show me the door;
however, after asking me what price I was prepared to disburse,
she condescended to put me in touch with a person qui pourrait
arranger la chose. Next day, an asthmatic woman, coarsely painted,
garrulous, garlicky, with an almost farcical Provencal accent and
a black moustache above a purple lip, took me to what was
apparendy her own domicile, and there, after explosively kissing
the bunched tips of her fat fingers to signify the delectable rosebud
quality of her merchandise, she theatrically drew aside a curtain
to reveal what I judged was that part of the room where a large
and unfastidious family usually slept. It was now empty save for
a monstrously plump, sallow, repulsively plain girl o f at least
fifteen with red-ribboned thick black braids who sat on a chair
perfunctorily nursing a bald doll. When I shook my head and
tried to shuffle out of the trap, the woman, talking fast, began
removing the dingy woollen jersey from the young giantess’s
torso; then, seeing my determination to leave, she demanded son
argent. A door at the end of the room was opened, and two men
who had been dining in the kitchen joined in the squabble.
They were misshapen, bare-necked, very swarthy and one o f

them wore dark glasses. A small boy and a begrimed, bowlegged
toddler lurked behind them. W ith the insolent logic of a night­
mare, the enraged procure^,1indicating the man in glasses, said
he had served in the police, lui, so that I had better do as I was
told. I went up to Marie— for that was her stellar name— who
by then had quietly transferred her heavy haunches to a stool at
the kitchen table and resumed her interrupted soup while the
toddler picked up the doll. With a surge of pity dramatizing my
idiotic gesture, I thrust a banknote into her indifferent hand.
She surrendered my gift to the ex-detective, whereupon I was
suffered to leave.

7
i do not know if the pimp’s album may not have been another
link in the daisy-chain; but soon after, for my own safety, I decided
to marry. It occurred to me that regular hours, home-cooked
meals, all the conventions of marriage, the prophylactic routine
of its bedroom activities and, who knows, the eventual flowering
of certain moral values, of certain spiritual substitutes, might help
me, if not to purge myself of my degrading and dangerous desires,
at least to keep them under pacific control. A little money that
had come my way after my father’s death (nothing very grand—
the Mirana had been sold long before), in addition to my striking
if somewhat brutal good looks, allowed me to enter upon my
quest with equanimity. After considerable deliberation, my choice
fell on the daughter of a Polish doctor: the good man happened
to be treating me for spells of dizziness and tachycardia. We
played chess; his daughter watched me from behind her easel, and
inserted eyes or knuckles borrowed from me into the cubistic trash
that accomplished misses then painted instead of lilacs and lambs.
Let me repeat with quiet force: I was, and still am, despite tries
malheurs, an exceptionally handsome male; slow-moving, tall,

26

with soft dark hair and a gloomy but all the mme sedwf* * of demeanour. Exceptional virility - m r reflects
displayable features a sullen and congested sr>nse n s «
tains to what he has to conceal. And this "was my u
a
I know, alas, that I could obtain at the snap «t n*' urn.^ •* *?
adult female I chose; in fact, it had become quite a
of not being too attentive to women lest they mui?
j
bloodripe, into my cold lap. Had 1 been a ymnpu. i-t-h.-, “w-5 *
taste for flashy ladies, I might have easily found, among - ,r * * !i'>
crazed beauties that lashed my grim rock, e icvsinrr-.
u* *se
fascinating than Valeria. My choice, however, was juomp-- n Ly
considerations whose essence was, as I realized toy Hm. ,t ; v v u ji compromise. All of which goes to show how dreaUiuhy
poor
Humbert always was in matters of sex.

1

8

ALTHOUGH I TOLD MYSELF I WES looking MCttlf for * J»fll«lg
presence, a glorified fiot-au-feu3 an animated merkin. what really
attracted me to Valeria was the imitation she gave of a luftr ^ r l
She gave it not because she had divined something about sow: H
was just her style— and I fell for it. Actually, she vor> at
- her late twenties (I never established, her exact age Ior rv rw her
passport lied) and had mislaid her virginity under r h <umstatiu-r*
that changed with her reminiscent moods. L on mv p.ut.
a*
, naive as only a pervert can be. She looked fluffy ,*ml fiwKoonntr,
dressed d la gamine, showed a generous amount o f .smooth
! knew b°w to stress the white of a bare instep by the. black o f a
velvet slipper, and pouted, and dimpled, and romned, Ajsd
> dirndled, and shook her short curly blonde hair in the cwtje&t im4
tntest fashion imaginable.
|
;

i

After a brief ceremony at the mmrkt I took her to il« m #
,

* 7'.

apartment I had rented and, somewhat to her surprise, had her
wear, before I touched her, a girl’s plain nightshirt that I had
managed to filch from the linen closet of an orphanage. I derived
some fun from that nuptial night and had the idiot in hysterics
by sunrise. But reality soon asserted itself. T h e bleached curl
revealed its melanic root; the down turned to prickles on a
shaved shin; the mobile moist mouth, no matter how I stuffed it
with love, disclosed ignomimously its resemblance to the corre­
sponding part in a treasured portrait of her toadlike dead mama;
and presently, instead of a pale little gutter girl, Humbert
Humbert had on his hands a large, puffy, short-legged, big­
breasted and practically brainless baba.
This state of affairs lasted from 1935 to 1939. Her only asset
was a muted nature which did help to produce an odd sense of
comfort in our small squalid fiat: two rooms, a hazy view in one
window, a brick wall in the other, a tiny kitchen, a shoe-shaped
bath tub, within which I felt like Marat but with no white­
necked maiden to stab me. We had quite a few cosy evenings
together, she deep in her ParisSoir, I working at a rickety table.
We went to movies, bicycle races and boxing matches. I appealed
to her stale flesh very seldom, only in cases of great urgency and
despair. The grocer had a little daughter whose shadow drove me
mad; but with Valeria’s help I did find after all some legal outlets
to my fantastic predicament. As to cooking, we tacitly dismissed
the pot-au-feu and had most of our meals at a crowded place in
rue Bonaparte where there were wine stains on the tablecloth
and a good deal of foreign babble. And next door, an art dealer
displayed in his cluttered window a splendid, flamboyant, green,
red, golden and inky blue, ancient American estampe— a locomo­
tive with a gigantic smokestack, great baroque lamps and a
tremendous cowcatcher, hauling its mauve coaches through the
stormy prairie night and mixing a lot of spark-studded black
smoke with the furry thunder clouds.
These burst. In the summer of 1939 man oncle d’Amerique died
bequeathing me an annual income of a few thousand dollars on
condition I came to live in the States and showed some interest in
his business. This prospect was most welcome to me. I felt my
life needed a shake-up. There was another thing, toO: moth holes
had' appeared in the plush of matrimonial comfort. During the

I

:
But we never were. Valechka— by now shedding torrents of
' tears tinged with the mess o f her rainbow make-up— started to
*’ fill anyhow a trunk, and two suitcases, and a bursting carton, and
! visions of putting on my mountain boots and taking a running
; kick at her rump were of course impossible to put into execution
f with the cursed colonel hovering around all the time. I cannot
? say he behaved insolently or anything like that; on the contrary,
! he displayed, as a small sideshow in the theatricals I had been
■ inveigled in, a discreet old-world civility, punctuating his move; ments with all sorts o f mispronounced apologies ( j ’ai demannie
I pardonne— excuse me— est-ce que f a i puis— may I— and so forth),
[ and turning away tactfully when Valechka took down with a
I flourish her pink panties from the clothesline above the tub; but
[ he seemed to be all over the place at once, le gredin, agreeing his
| frame with the anatomy of the flat, reading in my chair my newsI paper, untying a knotted string, rolling a cigarette, counting the
| teaspoons, visiting the bathroom, helping his moll to wrap up the
| electric fan her father had given her, and carrying streetward her
I luggage. I sat with arms folded, one hip on the window sill, dying
I of hate and boredom. A t last both were out o f the quivering
| apartment— the vibration of the door I had slammed after them
still rang in my every nerve, a poor substitute for the backhand
I slap with which I ought to have hit her across the cheekbone
• according to the rules of the movies. Clumsily playing my part,
l I stomped to the bathroom to check if they had taken my English
] toilet water; they had not; but I noticed with a spasm o f fierce
s disgust that the former Counsellor o f the Tsar, after thoroughly
i easing his bladder, had not flushed the toilet. T h at solemn pool
i of alien urine with a soggy, tawny cigarette butt disintegrating
i in it struck me as a crowning insult, and I wildly looked around
!•for a weapon. Actually I dare say it was nothing but middle-class
1 Russian courtesy (with an Oriental tang, perhaps) that had
; prompted the good colonel (Maximovich! his name suddenly
taxies back to me), a very formal person as they all are, to m u l e
his private need in decorous silence so as not to underscore the
| small size of his host’s domicile with the rush o f a gross cascade
j on top of his own hushed trickle. But this did not enter my mind
at the moment, as groaning with rage I ransacked the kitchen
for something better than a broom. Then, cancelling my search,

J

I dashed out of the house with the heroic decision o f attacking
him barefisted: despite my natural vigour, I am no pugilist, while
tire short but broad-shouldered Maximovich seemed made of pig
iron. The void of the street, revealing nothing o f my wife’s de­
parture except a rhinestone button that she had dropped in the
mud after preserving it for three unnecessary years in a broken
box, may have spared me a bloody nose. But no matter. I had my
little revenge in due time, A man from Pasadena told me one day
that Mrs Maximovich nis Zborovski had died in childbirth
around 1945; the couple had somehow got over to California and
had been used there, for an excellent salary, in a year-long experi­
ment conducted by a distinguished American ethnologist. The
experiment dealt with human and racial reactions to a diet of
bananas and dates in a constant position on all fours. M y in­
formant, a doctor, swore he had seen with his own eyes obese
Valechka and her colonel, by then grey-haired and also quite
corpulent, diligently crawling about the well-swept floors o f a
brightly lit set of rooms (fruit in one, water in another, mats in a
third and so on) in the company o f several other hired quadrupeds,
selected from indigent and helpless groups. I tried to find the
results of these tests in the Review of Anthropology; but they appear
not to have been published yet. These scientific products take of
course some time to fructuate. I hope they will be illustrated with
good photographs when they do get printed, although it is not
very likely that a prison library will harbour such erudite works.
The one to which I am restricted these days, despite my lawyer’s
favours, is a good example of the inane eclecticism governing the
selection of books in prison libraries. They have the Bible, of
course, and Dickens (an ancient set, N .Y., G. W . Dillingham,
Publisher, M D C G C L X X X V I 1) ; and the Children's Encyclopaedia
(with some nice photographs of sunshine-haired Girl Scouts in
shorts), and A Murder is Announced by Agatha Christie; but they
also have such coruscating trifles as A Vagabond in Italy by Percy
Elphinstone, author of Venice Revisited, Boston, 1868, and a com­
paratively recent (1946) Who's Who in the Limelight— actors, pro­
ducers, playwrights, and shots of static, scenes. In looking through
the latter volume, I was treated last night to one o f those dazzling
coincidences that logicians loathe and poets love. I transcribe
most of the page:

32

Rynt, Roland. Bora in L tm d y, Mass., 192a. Received stage
training at Llsinorc I Lty house, Derby, N .Y , M ade debut in
Sunburst* Among his m an y appearances are Two Blocks from
Here, The Girl in (hern, Si rambled Husbands, The Strange Mushroom.) Touch and t >0, fohn Lovely, 1 fYas Dreaming o f You.
Qpilty, Glare, American dramatist. Bom in Ocean City, N .J.,
19*1. Educated at C o lu m b ia University. Started on a com­
mercial career but turned to play writing. Author of The Little
Nymph, The Lady who Loved Lightning (in collaboration with
Vivian Darkbloom), Dark Age, The Strange Mushroom, Fatherly
Lorn, and others. HR m an y plays for children arc notable. Little
Nymph (194°) travelled 14,noo miles and played 280 perform­
ances on the road d u rin g the w inter before ending in N ew
York. Hobbies: fast cat's, photography, pets.
Quine, Dolores. Born in 1882, in Dayton, Ohio. Studied for
stage at American A cad em y. First played in Ottaw a in 1900.
Made New York debut in 1904 in Never Talk to Strangers. Has
disappeared since in [a list o f some thirty plays follows].
How the look o f m y dear lo ve’s nam e, even affixed to some old
. hag of an actress* still makes m e rock with helpless pain! Perhaps,
I she might have been an actress too. Born 1935. Appeared (I,
! notice the slip o f my pen in the preceding paragraph, but please
; do not correct it, C larence) in The Murdered Playwright Qgine
the Swine. Guilty o f killing Qjuilty. O h , my Lolita, I have onlywords to play with!

9
| divorce p roc e e di ngs delayed m y voyage, and the gloom o f
| yet another W orld W a r had settled upon the globe when, after a
winter of ennui and pneumonia in Portugal, I at last reached the
States. In New Y o rk I eagerly accepted the soft job fate offered
me: it consisted m ainly o f chinking up and editing perfume ads.

I welcomed its desultory character and pseudo-literary aspects,
attending to it whenever I had nothing better to do. O n the other
hand, X was urged by a wartime university in New York to com­
plete my comparative history of French literature for Englishspeaking students. The first volume took me a couple of years ■
during which I put in seldom less than fifteen hours of work >
daily. As I look back on those days, I see them divided tidily into .
ample light and narrow shade: the light pertaining to the solace
.of research in palatial libraries, the shade to m y excruciating
desires and insomnias of which enough has been said. Knowing
me by now, the reader can easily imagine how dusty and hot I i
got, trying to catch a glimpse of nymphets (alas, always remote)
playing in Central Park, and how repulsed I was b y the glitter of
deodorized career girls that a gay dog in one of the offices kept
unloading upon me. Let us skip all that. A dreadful breakdown
sent me to a sanatorium for more than a year; I went back to my
work— only to be hospitalized again.
Robust outdoor life seemed to promise me some relief. One of
my favourite doctors, a charming cynical chap with a little brown
beard, had a brother, and this brother was about to lead an
expedition into arctic Canada. I was attached to it as a ‘recorder
of psychic reactions5. With two young botanists and an old
carpenter I shared now and then (never very successfully) the
favours of one of our nutritionists, a Dr Anita Johnson— who was
soon flown back, I am glad to say. I had little notion of what
object the expedition was pursuing. Judging by the number of
meteorologists upon it, we may have been tracking to its lair
(somewhere on Prince of Wales5 Island, I understand) the
wandering and wobbly north magnetic pole. One group, jointly
with the Canadians, established a weather station on Pierre Point
in Melville Sound. Another group, equally misguided, collected
plankton. A third studied tuberculosis in the tundra. Bert, a film
photographer— an insecure fellow with whom at one time I was
made to partake in a good deal of menial work (he, too, had some
psychic troubles)— maintained that the big men on our team, the
real leaders we never saw, were mainly engaged in checking the
influence of climatic amelioration on the coats of the arctic fox.
We lived in prefabricated timber cabins amid a Pre-Cambrian
world of granite. We had heaps of supplies— the Reader's Digest,

an ice-cream mixer, chemical toilets, paper hats for Christmas.
M y health improved wonderfully in spite or because of all the
fantastic blankness and boredom. Surrounded by such dejected
vegetation as willow scrub and lichens; permeated, and, I sup­
pose, cleansed by a whistling gale; seated on a boulder under a
completely translucent sky (through which, however, nothing of
importance showed), I felt curiously aloof from my own self. No
temptations maddened me. The plump, glossy little Eskimo girls
with their fish smell, hideous raven hair and guinea pig faces,
evoked even less desire in me than D r Johnson had. Nymphets
do not occur in polar regions.
I left my betters the task of analysing glacial drifts, drumlins,
and gremlins, and kremlins, and for a time tried to jo t down what
I fondly thought were ‘reactions’ (I noticed, for instance, that
dreams under the midnight sun tended to be highly coloured, and
this my friend the photographer confirmed). I was also supposed
to quiz my various companions on a number of important matters,
such as nostalgia, fear of unknown animals, food-fantasies, noc­
turnal emissions, hobbies, choice o f radio programmes, changes
in outlook and so forth. Everybody got so fed up with this that I
soon dropped the project completely, and only toward the end of
my twenty months of cold labour (as one of the botanists jocosely
put it) concocted a perfectly spurious and very racy report that
the reader will find published in the Annals o f Adult Psychophysics
for 1945 or* 1946, as well as in the issue of Arctic Explorations
devoted to that particular expedition; which, in conclusion, was
not really concerned with Victoria Island copper or anything like
that, as I learned later from m y genial doctor; for the nature of
its real purpose was what is termed ‘hush-hush’, and so let me
add merely that, whatever it was, that purpose was admirably
achieved.
The reader will regret to learn that soon after my return to
civilization I had another bout with insanity (if to melancholia
and a. sense of insufferable oppression that cruel term must be
applied). I owe my complete restoration to a discovery I made
while being treated at that particular very expensive sanatorium.
I discovered there was an endless source of robust enjoyment in
trifling with psychiatrists; cunningly leading them on; never
letthig them see that you know all the tricks o f the trade;

35

inventing for them elaborate dreams, pure classics in style (which
make them, the dream-extortionists, dream and wake up shriek­
ing); teasing them with fake ‘primal scenes’ ; and never allowing
them the slightest glimpse of one’s real sexual predicament. By
bribing a nurse I won access to some files and discovered, with
glee, cards calling me ‘potentially homosexual’ and ‘totally im­
potent’. The sport was so excellent, its results— in my case— so
ruddy that I stayed on for a whole month after I was quite well
(sleeping admirably and eating like a schoolgirl). And then I
added another week just for the pleasure of taking on a powerful
newcomer, a displaced (and, surely, deranged) celebrity, known
for his knack of making patients believe they had witnessed their
own conception.

1 0

upon si gning ou t , I

cast around for some place in the New
England countryside or sleepy small town (elms, white church)
where I could spend a studious summer subsisting on a compact
boxful of notes I had accumulated and bathing in some nearby
lake. My work had begun to interest me again— I mean my
scholarly exertions; the other thing, my active participation in
my uncle’s posthumous perfumes, had by then been cut down to
a minimum.
One of his former employees, the scion of a distinguished
family, suggested I spend a few months in the residence of his
impoverished cousins, a M r McGoo, retired, and his wife, who
wanted to let their upper story where a late aunt had delicately
dwelt. He said they had two little daughters, one a baby, the
other a girl of twelve, and a beautiful garden, not far from a
beautiful lake, and I said it sounded perfecdy perfect.
I exchanged letters with these people, satisfying them I was

36

housebroken, and spent a fantastic night on the train, imagining
in all possible detail the enigmatic nymphet I would coach in
French and fondle in Humbertish. Nobody met me at the toy
station where I alighted with my new expensive bag, and nobody
answered the telephone; eventually, however, a distraught M cGoo
in wet clothes turned up at the only hotel of green-and-pink
Ramsdale with the news that his house had just burned down—
possibly, owing to the synchronous conflagration that had been
raging all night in my veins. His family, he said, had fled to a
farm he owned, and had taken the car, but a friend of his wife’s,
a grand person, Mrs Haze, of 342 Lawn Street, offered to accom­
modate me. A lady who lived opposite Mrs Haze’s had lent
McCoo her limousine, a marvellously old-fashioned, squaretopped affair, manned by a cheerful Negro. Now, since the only
reason for my coming at all had vanished, the aforesaid arrange­
ment seemed preposterous. All right, his house would have to be
completely rebuilt, so what? Had he not insured it sufficiently?
I was angry, disappointed and bored, but, being a polite Euro­
pean, could not refuse to be sent o ff to La,wn Street in that funeral
car, feeling that otherwise McGoo would devise an even more
elaborate means of getting rid of me. I saw him scamper away,
and my chauffeur shook his head with a soft chuckle. En route,
I swore to myself I would not dream o f staying in Ramsdale
under any circumstance but would fly that very day to the Ber­
mudas or the Bahamas or the Blazes. Possibilities of sweetness on
technicolor beaches had been trickling through m y spine for some
time before, and M cCoo’s cousin had, in fact, sharply diverted
that train of thought with his well-meaning but as it transpired
now absolutely inane suggestion.
Speaking of sharp turns: we almost ran over a meddlesome
suburban dog (one of those who lie in wait for cars) as we swerved
into Lawn Street. A little further, the Haze house, a white-frame
horror, appeared, looking dingy and old, more grey than white—
the kind of place you know will, have a rubber tube affixabie to
the tub faucet in lieu of shower. I tipped the chauffeur and hoped
he would immediately drive away so that I might double back
unnoticed to my hotel and bag; but the man merely crossed to the
other side of the street where an old lady was calling to him
from her porch. What could I do? I pressed the bell button.

A coloured maid let me in— and left me standing on the mat
while she rushed back to the kitchen where something was
burning that ought not to burn.
The front hall was graced with door chimes, a white-eyed
wooden thingamabob of commercial Mexican origin, and that
banal darling of the arty middle class, van Gogh’s ‘Arlesienneh
A door ajar to the right afforded a glimpse of a living room, with
some more Mexican trash in a corner cabinet and a striped sofa
along the wall. There was a staircase at the end of the hallway,
and as I stood mopping my brow (only now did I realize how
hot it had been out of doors) and staring, to stare at something,
at an old grey tennis ball that lay on an oak chest, there came
from the upper landing the contralto voice of Mrs Haze, who
leaning over the banisters inquired melodiously, ‘Is that Monsieur
Humbert?5A bit of cigarette ash dropped from there in addition.
Presently, the lady herself— sandals, maroon slacks, yellow silk
blouse, squarish face, in that order— came down the steps, her
index finger still tapping upon her cigarette.
I think I had better describe her right away, to get it over with.
The poor lady was in her middle thirties, she had a shiny fore­
head, plucked eyebrows and quite simple but not unattractive
features of a type that may be defined as a weak solution of
Marlene Dietrich. Patting her bronze-brown bun, she led me into
the parlour and we talked for a minute about the McGoo fire and
the privilege of living in Ramsdale. Her very wide-set sea-green
eyes had a funny way of travelling all over you, carefully avoiding
your own eyes. Her smile was but a quizzical jerk of one eyebrow;
and uncoiling herself from the sofa as she talked, she kept making
spasmodic dashes at three ashtrays and the near fender (where
lay the brown core of an apple); whereupon she would sink back
again, one leg folded under her. She was, obviously, one of those
women whose polished words may reflect a book club or bridge
club, or any other deadly conventionality, but never her soul;
women who are completely devoid of humour; women utterly
indifferent at heart to the dozen or so possible subjects of a
parlour conversation, but very particular about the rules of such
conversations, through the sunny cellophane of which not very
appetizing frustrations can be readily distinguished. I was per­
fectly aware that if by any wild chance I became her lodger, she

38

would methodically proceed to do in regard to me what taking a
lodger probably meant to her all along, and I would again be
enmeshed in one of those tedious affairs I knew so well.
But there was no question of my settling there. I could not be
happy in that type of household with bedraggled magazines on
every chair and a kind of horrible hybridization between the
comedy of so-called ‘functional modern furniture’ and the tragedy
of decrepit rockers and rickety lamp tables with dead lamps. I
was led upstairs, and to the left— into ‘my5 room. I inspected it
through the mist of my utter rejection of it; but I did discern
above ‘my’ bed Rene Prinet’s ‘Kreutzer Sonata’. And she called
that servant maid’s room a ‘semi-studio’ ! Let’s get out of here at
once, I firmly said to myself as I pretended to deliberate over the
absurdly, and ominously, low price that my wistful hostess was
asking for board and bed.
Old-world politeness, however, obliged me to go on with the
ordeal. We crossed the landing to the right side o f the house
(where ‘I and Lo have our rooms’— Lo being presumably the
maid), and the lodger-lover could hardly conceal a shudder when
he, a very fastidious male, was granted a preview of the only
bathroom, a tiny oblong between the landing and ‘L o’s’ room,
with limp wet things overhanging the dubious tub (the question
mark of a hair inside); and there were the expected coils of the
rubber snake, and its complement— a pinkish cosy, coyly covering
the toilet lid.
‘I see you are not too favourably impressed,’ said the lady letting
her hand rest for a moment upon my sleeve: she combined a cool
forwardness— the overflow of what I think is called ‘poise’— with a
shyness and sadness that caused her detached way of selecting her
words to seem as unnatural as the intonation o f a professor of
‘speech’. ‘This is not a neat household, I confess,’ the doomed dear
continued, ‘but I assure you [she looked at my lips], you will be
very comfortable, very comfortable, indeed. Let me show you the
garden (the last more brightly, with a kind of winsome toss of
the voice).
_Reluctantly I followed her downstairs again; then through the
kitchen at the end of the hall, on the right side of the house— the
side where also the dining room and the parlour were (under
‘my’ room, on the left, there was nothing but a garage). In the

kitchen, the Negro maid, a plump youngish woman, said, as she
took her large glossy black purse from the knob of the door leading
to the back porch: ‘I ’ll go now, Mrs Haze.’ ‘Yes, Louise,’
answered Mrs Haze with a sigh. ‘I ’ll settle with you Friday.’ We
passed on to a small pantry and entered the dining room, parallel
to the parlour we had already admired. I noticed a white sock
on the floor. With a deprecatory grunt, Mrs Haze stooped with­
out stopping and threw it into a closet next to the pantry. We
cursorily inspected a mahogany table with a fruit vase in the
middle, containing nothing but the still glistening stone of one
plum. I groped for the timetable I had in my pocket and surrep­
titiously fished it out to look as soon as possible for a train. I was
still walking behind Mrs Haze through the dining room when,
beyond it, there came a sudden burst of greenery— ‘the piazza’,
sang out my leader, and then, without the least warning, a blue
sea-wave swelled under my heart and, from a mat in a pool of
sun, half-naked, kneeling, turning about on her knees, there was
my Riviera love peering at me over dark glasses.
It was the same child— the same frail, honey-hued shoulders,
the same silky supple bare back, the same chestnut head o f hair.
A polka-dotted black kerchief tied around her chest hid from my
aging ape eyes, but not from the gaze of young memory, the
juvenile breasts I had fondled one immortal day. And, as if I
were the fairy-tale nurse of some little princess (lost, kidnapped,
discovered in gypsy rags through which her nakedness smiled at
the king and his hounds), I recognized the tiny dark-brown mole
on her side. With awe and delight (the king crying for joy, the
trumpets blaring, the nurse drunk) I saw again her lovely in­
drawn abdomen where my southbound mouth had briefly
paused; and those puerile hips on which I had kissed the crenulated imprint left by the band of her shorts— that last mad im­
mortal day behind the ‘Roches Roses’. The twenty-five years I
had lived since then, tapered to a palpitating point, and vanished.
I find it most difficult to express with adequate force that flash,
that shiver, that impact of passionate recognition. In the course
of the sun-shot moment that my glance slithered over the kneeling
child (her eyes blinking over those stern dark spectacles— the
little Herr Doktor who was to cure me of all my aches) while I
passed by her in my adult disguise (a great big handsome hunk

of movieland manhood), the vacuum of my soul managed to
suck in every detail of her bright beauty, and these I checked
against the features of my dead bride. A little later, of course, she,
this nouvelle, this Lolita, my Lolita, was to eclipse completely her
prototype. A ll I want to stress is that my discovery o f her was a
fatal consequence of that ‘princedom by the sea5 in my tortured
Past\ Everything between the two events was but a series of
gropmgs and blunders, and false rudiments of joy. Everything
they shared made one of them.
. * have no illusions, however. M y judges will regard all this as a
piece of mummery on the part o f a madman with a gross liking for
tnejruu VerL j LUj'ong) ga nfest bien egal. All 1 know is that while the
Haze Woman and I went down the steps into the breathless garden,
ray knees were like reflections of knees in rippling water, and my
like sand, and----th a t was my Lo,5 she said, ‘and these are my lilies.5
es55 I said, ‘yes. They are beautiful, beautiful, beautiful!5

1 1

e x hi b i t nu mb e r t wo is a pocket diary bound in black imita­

tion leather, with a golden year, 1947, en escalier, in its upper lefthand corner. I speak of this neat product of the Blank Blank Go,
Blankton, Mass, as if it were really before me, Actually, it was
destroyed five years ago and what we examine now (by courtesy
of a photographic memory) is but its brief materialization, a puny
unfledged phoenix.
reraember the thing so exactly because I wrote it really twice,
first I jotted down each entry in pencil (with many erasures and
conections) on the leaves of what is commercially known as a
typewriter tablet5; then, I copied it out with obvious abbrevia­

tions in my smallest, most satanic, hand in the little black book
just mentioned.
M ay 30 is a Fast Day by Proclamation in New Hampshire but
not in the Garolinas. That day an epidemic of ‘abdominal flu’
(whatever that is) forced Ramsdale to close its schools for the
summer. The reader may check the weather data in the Rams­
dale Journal for 1947. A few days before that I moved into the
Haze house, and the little diary which I now propose to reel off
(much as a spy delivers by heart the contents of the note he
swallowed) covers most of June.
Thursday. Very warm day. From a vantage point (bathroom
window) saw Dolores taking things off a clothes line in the applegreen light behind the house. Strolled out. She wore a plaid shirt,
blue jeans and sneakers. Every movement she made in the
dappled sun plucked at the most secret and sensitive chord of my
abject body. After a while she sat down next to me on the lower
step of the back porch and began to pick up the pebbles between
her feet— pebbles, my God, then a curled bit of milk-bottle glass
resembling a snarling lip— and chuck them at a can. Ping. You
can’t a second time— you can’t hit it— this is agony— a second
time. Ping. Marvellous skin— oh, marvellous: tender and tanned,
not the least blemish. Sundaes cause acne. The excess of the oily
substance called sebum which nourishes the hair follicles o f the
skin creates, when too profuse, an irritation that opens the way
to infection. But nymphets do not have acne although they gorge
themselves on rich food. God, what agony, that silky shimmer
above her temple grading into bright brown hair. And the little
bone twitching at the side of her dust-powdered ankle. ‘The
McGoo girl? Ginny McGoo? Oh, she’s a fright. And mean. And
lame. Nearly died of polio.’ Ping. The glistening tracery o f down
on her forearm. When she got up to take in the wash, I had a
chance of adoring from afar the faded seat of her rolled-up jeans.
Out of the lawn, bland Mrs Haze, complete with camera, grew
up like a fakir’s fake tree and after some heliotropic fussing— sad
eyes up, glad eyes down— had the cheek of taking my picture as
I sat blinking on the steps, Humbert le Bel.
Friday. Saw her going somewhere with a dark girl called Rose.
Why does the way she walks— a child, mind you, a mere child!__
excite me so abominably? Analyse it. A faint suggestion of tumed-

43

in toes. A kind of wiggly looseness below the knee prolonged to
the end of each footfall. The ghost of a drag. V ery infantile, in­
finitely meretricious. Humbert Humbert is also infinitely moved
by the little one’s slangy speech, by her harsh high voice. Later
heard her volley crude nonsense at Rose across the fence. Tw ang­
ing through me in a rising rhythm. Pause. £I must go now, kiddo.*
Saturday. (Beginning perhaps amended.) I know it is madness
to keep this journal but it gives me a strange thrill to do so; and
only a loving wife could decipher my microscopic script. L et m e
state with a sob that today my L. was sun-bathing on the socalled ‘piazza5, but her mother and some other woman were
around all the time. O f course, I might have sat there in the
rocker and pretended to read. Playing safe, I kept away, for I
was afraid that the horrible, insane, ridiculous and pitiful tremor
that palsied me might prevent me from making m y entree with
any semblance of casualness.
Sunday. Pleat ripple still with us; a most favonian week. This
time I took up a strategic position, with obese newspaper and new
pipe, in the piazza rocker before L. arrived. T o m y intense dis­
appointment she came with her mother, both in two-piece bath­
ing suits, black, as new as my pipe. M y darling, m y sweetheart
stood for a moment near me— wanted the funnies— and she smelt
almost exactly like the other one, the Riviera one, but more in­
tensely so, with rougher overtones— a torrid odour that at once
set my manhood astir— but she had already yanked out o f me the
coveted section and retreated to her m at near her phocine
mamma. There my beauty lay down on her stomach, showing
me, showing the thousand eyes wide open in my eyed blood, her
slightly raised shoulder blades, and the bloom along the incurva­
tion of her spine, and the swellings of her tense narrow nates
clothed in black, and the seaside of her schoolgirl thighs. Silently,
the seventh-grader enjoyed her green-red-blue comics. She was
the loveliest nymphet green-red-blue Priap himself could think
up. As I looked on, through prismatic layers of light, dry-lipped,
focusing my lust and rocking slightly under my newspaper, I felt
that my perception of her, if properly concentrated upon, might
be sufficient to have me attain a beggar’s bliss immediately; but,
like some predator that prefers a moving prey to a motionless one,
I planned to have this pitiful attainment coincide with one o f the

43

various girlish movements she made now and then as she read,
such as trying to scratch the middle of her back and revealing a
stippled armpit— but fat Haze suddenly spoiled everything by
turning to me and asking me for a light, and starting a makebelieve conversation about a fake book by some popular fraud.
Monday. Dekdatio morosa. I spend my doleful days in dumps
and dolours. We (mother Haze, Dolores and I) were to go to
Our Glass Lake this afternoon, and bathe, and bask; but a
nacreous morn degenerated at noon into rain, and Lo made a
scene.
The median age of pubescence for girls has been found to be
thirteen years and nine months in New York and Chicago. The
age varies for individuals from ten, or earlier, to seventeen.
Virginia was not quite fourteen when Harry Edgar possessed her.
He gave her lessons in algebra. Je m>imagine cela. They spent their
honeymoon at Petersburg, Fla. ‘Monsieur Poe-poe’, as that boy
in one of Monsieur Humbert Humbert’s classes in Paris called
the poet-poet.
I have all the characteristics which, according to writers on the
sex interests of children, start the responses stirring in a little girl:
clean-cut jaw, muscular hand, deep sonorous voice, broad
shoulder. Moreover, I am said to resemble some crooner or actor
chap on whom Lo has a crush.
Tuesday. Rain. Lake of the Rains. Mamma out shopping. L., I
knew, was somewhere quite near. In result of some stealthy
manoeuvring, I came across her in her mother’s bedroom. Prying
her left eye open to get rid of a speck of something. Checked
frock. Although I do love that intoxicating brown fragrance of
hers, I really think she should wash her hair once in a while. For
a moment, we were both in the same warm green bath of the
mirror that reflected the top of a poplar with us in the sky. Held
her roughly by the shoulders, then tenderly by the temples, and
turned her about. ‘It’s right there,’ she said, ‘I can feel it.’
‘Swiss peasant would use the tip of her tongue.’ ‘Lick it out?’
‘Yeth. Shly try?’ ‘Sure,’ she said. Gently I pressed my quivering
sting along her rolling salty eyeball. ‘Goody-goody,’ she said
nictating. ‘It is gone.’ ‘Now the other?’ ‘You dope,’ she. began,
‘there is noth— ’ but here she noticed the pucker of my approach­
ing lips. ‘Okay,’ she said co-operatively, and bending toward her

warm upturned russet face sombre Humbert pressed his mouth
to her fluttering eyelid. She laughed, and brushed past me out of
the room. M y heart seemed everywhere at once. Never in my
life— not even when fondling my child-love in France— never-----Night. Never have I experienced such agony. I would like to
describe her face, her ways— and I cannot, because my own desire
for her blinds me when she is near, I am not used to being with
nymphets, damn it. I f I close my eyes I see but an immobilized
fraction of her, a cinematographic still, a sudden smooth nether
loveliness, as with one knee up under her tartan skirt she sits
tying her shoe. ‘Dolores Haze, ne montrez pas nos zhambes’ (this is
her mother who thinks she knows French).
A poet a mes heures, I composed a madrigal to the soot-black
lashes of her pale-grey vacant eyes, to the five asymmetrical
freckles of her bobbed nose, to the blonde down of her brown
limbs; but I tore it up and cannot recall it today. O nly in the
tritest of terms (diary resumed) can I describe Lo’s features: I
might say her hair is auburn, and her lips as red as licked red
candy, the lower one prettily plump— oh, that I were a lady
writer who could have her pose naked in a naked light! But in­
stead I am lanky, big-boned, woolly-chested Humbert Humbert,
with thick black eyebrows and a queer accent, and a cesspoolful
of rotting monsters behind his slow boyish smile. And neither is
she the fragile child of a feminine novel. W hat drives me insane is
the twofold nature of this nvmphet— of every nymphet, perhaps;
this mixture in my Lolita of tender dreamy childishness and a
kind of eerie vulgarity, stemming from the snub-nosed cuteness
of ads and magazine pictures, from the blurry pinkness of
adolescent maidservants in the O ld Country (smelling of crushed
daisies and sweat); and from very young harlots disguised as
children in provincial brothels; and then again, all this gets
mixed up with the exquisite stainless tenderness seeping through
the musk and the mud, through the dirt and the death, oh God,
oh God. And what is most singular is that she, this Lolita, my
Lolita, has individualized the writer’s ancient lust, so that above
and over everything there is— Lolita.
Wednesday. ‘Look, make Mother take you and me to O u r
Glass Lake tomorrow.’ These were the textual words said to me
by my twelve-year-old flame in a voluptuous whisper, as we

happened to bump into one another on the front porch, I out,
she in. The reflection of the afternoon sun, a dazzling white
diamond with innumerable iridescent spikes quivered on the
round back of a parked car. The leafage of a voluminous elm
played its mellow shadows upon the clapboard wall of the house.
Two poplars shivered and shook. You could make out the form­
less sound of remote traffic; a child calling ‘Nancy, Nan-cy!5 In
the house, Lolita had put on her favourite ‘Little Carmen5 record
which I used to call ‘Dwarf Conductors’, making her snort with
mock derision at my mock wit.
Thursday. Last night we sat on the piazza, the Haze woman,
Lolita and I. Warm dusk had deepened into amorous darkness.
The old girl had finished relating in great detail the plot of a
movie she and L. had seen sometime in the winter. The boxer
had fallen extremely low when he met the good old priest (who
had been a boxer himself in his robust youth and could still slug
a sinner). We sat on cushions heaped on the floor, and L. was
between the woman and me (she had squeezed herself in, the
pet). In my turn, I launched upon a hilarious account of my arctic
adventures. The muse of invention handed me a rifle and I shot
a white bear who sat down and said: Ah! All the while I was
acutely aware of L .’s nearness and as I spoke I gestured in the
merciful dark and took advantage of those invisible gestures of
mine to touch her hand, her shoulder and a ballerina of wool and
gauze which she played with and kept sticking into my lap; and
finally, when I had completely enmeshed my glowing darling in
this weave of ethereal, caresses, I dared stroke her bare leg along
the gooseberry fuzz of her shin, and I chuckled at my own jokes,
and trembled, and concealed my tremors, and once or twice felt
with my rapid lips the warmth of her hair as I treated her to a
quick nuzzling, humorous aside and caressed her plaything. She,
too, fidgeted a good deal so that finally her mother told her
sharply to quit it and sent the doll flying into the dark, and I
laughed and acldi'essed myself to Haze across Lo’s legs to let my
hand creep up my nymphet’s thin back and feel her skin through
her boy’s shirt.
But I knew it was all hopeless, and was sick with longing, and
my clothes felt miserably tight, and I was almost glad when her
mother’s quiet voice announced in the dark: ‘And now we all

think that Lo should go to bed.’ £I think you stink/ said La*
‘Which means there will be no picnic tomorrow/ said Haze.
‘This is a free country/ said Lo. When angry Lo with a Bronx
cheer had gone, I stayed on from sheer inertia, while Haze^
smoked her tenth cigarette of the evening and complained o f
Lo.
.■ ^ ■.
She had been spiteful, if you please, at the age o f one, when she
used to throw her toys out of her crib so that her poor mother
should keep picking them up, the villainous infant! Now, at
twelve, she was a regular pest, said Haze. A ll she wanted from
life was to be one day a strutting and prancing baton twirler or a
jitterbug. Her grades were poor, but she was better adjusted in
her new school than in Pisky (Pisky was the Haze home town in
the Middle West. The Ramsdale house was her late mother-inlaw’s. They had moved to Ramsdale less than two years ago).
‘Why was she unhappy there?’ ‘O h/ said Haze, ‘poor me should
know, I went through that when I was a kid: boys twisting one’s
arm, banging into one with loads o f books, pulling one’s hair,
hurting one’s breasts, flipping one’s skirt. O f course, moodiness is
a common concomitant of growing up, but Lo exaggerates.
Sullen and evasive. Rude and defiant. Stuck Viola, an Italian
schoolmate, in the seat with a fountain pen. Know what I would
like? If you, monsieur, happened to be still here in the fall, I’d
ask you lo help her with her homework— you seem to know
everything, geography, mathematics, French.’ ‘Oh, everything/
answered monsieur. ‘That means/ said blaze quickly, ‘you’ll be
here!’ I wanted to shout that I would stay on eternally if only I
could hope to caress now and then my incipient pupil. But I was
wary of Haze. So I just grunted and stretched my limbs nonconcomitantly {le mot juste) and presently went up to my room.
The woman, however, was evidently not prepared to call it a day,
I was already lying upon my cold bed, both hands pressing to
my face Lolita’s fragrant ghost, when I heard my indefatigable
landlady creeping steathily up to my door to whisper through it—
just to make sure, she said, I was through with the Glance and
Gulp magazine I had borrowed the other day. From her room
Lo yelled she had it. We are quite a lending library in this house,
thunder of God.
Friday. I wonder what my academic publishers would say if I

47

I'w
[
|i*

were to quote in my textbook Ronsard’s Ha vermeillette fente' or
Remy Belleau’s ‘un petit mont feutre de mousse delicate, trace sur le
milieu d’un fillet escarlaile' and so forth. I shall probably have
another breakdown if I stay any longer in this house, under the
strain of this intolerable temptation, by the side o f my darling— ■
my darling— my life and my bride. Has she already been initiated
by mother nature to the Mystery of the Menarche? Bloated
feeling. The Curse of the Irish. Falling from the roof. Grandma
is visiting. ‘Mr Uterus [I quote from a girls’ magazine] starts to
build a thick soft wall on the chance a possible baby may have
to be bedded down there.’ The tiny madman in his padded
Incidentally: if I ever commit a serious murder. . . . Mark the
‘if’. The urge should be something more than the kind of thing
that happened to me with Valeria. Carefully mark that then I was
rather inept. If and when you wish to sizzle me to death, re­
member that only a spell of insanity could ever give me the simple
energy to be a brute (all this amended, perhaps). Sometimes I
attempted to kill in my dreams. But do you know what happens?
For instance I hold a gun. For instance I aim at a bland, quietly
interested enemy. Oh, I press the trigger all right, but one bullet
after another feebly drops on the floor from the sheepish muzzle.
In those dreams, my only thought is to conceal the fiasco from
my foe, who is slowly growing annoyed.
At dinner tonight the old cat said to me with a sidelong gleam
of motherly mockery directed at Lo (I had just been describing,
in a flippant vein, the delightful little toothbrush moustache I had
not quite decided to grow): ‘Better don’t, if somebody is not to go
absolutely dotty.’ Instantly Lo pushed her plate of boiled fish
away, all but knocking her milk over, and bounced out of the
dining room. ‘Would it bore you very much,’ quoth Haze, ‘to
come with us tomorrow for a swim in Our Glass Lake if Lo
apologizes for her manners?’
Later, I heard a great banging of doors and other sounds
coming from quaking caverns where the two rivals were having
a ripping row.
She has not apologized. The lake is out. It might have been
fun.
Saturday. For some clays already I had been leaving the door
48

ajar, while I wrote in my room; but only today did the trap
work* With a good deal of additional fidgeting, shuffling, scrap­
ing— to disguise her embarrassment at visiting me without having
been called— Lo came in and after pottering around, became in­
terested in the nightmare curlicues I had penned on a sheet of
paper. Oh no: they were not the outcome of a bellelettrist’s in­
spired pause between two paragraphs; they were the hideous
hieroglyphics (which she could not decipher) of my fatal lust. As
she bent her brown curls over the desk at which I was sitting,
Humbert the Hoarse put his arm around her in a miserable
imitation of blood-relationship; and still studying, somewhat
shortsightedly, the piece of paper she held, my innocent little
visitor slowly sank to a half-sitting position upon my knee. Her
adorable profile, parted lips, warm hair were some three inches
from my bared eyetooth; and I felt the heat of her limbs through
her rough tomboy clothes. A ll at once I knew I could kiss her
throat or the wick of her mouth with perfect impunity. I knew
she would let me do so, and even close her eyes as Hollywood
teaches. A double vanilla with hot fudge— hardly more unusual
than that. I cannot tell my learned reader (whose eyebrows, I
suspect, have by now travelled all the way to the back of his
bald head), I cannot tell him how the knowledge came to me;
perhaps my ape-ear had unconsciously caught some slight change
in the rhythm of her respiration— for now she was not really
looking at my scribble, but waiting with curiosity and composure
— oh, my limpid nymphet!— for the glamorous lodger to do what
he was dying to do. A modern child, an avid reader of movie
magazines, an expert in dream-slow close-ups, might not think
it too strange, I guessed, if a handsome, intensely virile, grown­
up friend— too late. Tire house was suddenly vibrating with
voluble Louise’s voice telling Mrs Haze who had just come home
about a dead something she and Leslie Tomson had found in the
basement, and little Lolita was not one to miss such a tale.
Sunday. Changeful, bad-tempered, cheerful, awkward, graceful
with the tart grace of her coltish subteens, excruciatingly de­
sirable from head to foot (all New England for a lady-writer’s
pen!), from the black ready-made bow and bobby pins holding
her hair in place to the little scar on the lower part of her neat
calf (where a roller-skater kicked her in Pisky), a couple of inches

49

above her rough white sock. Gone with her mother to the
Hamiltons— a birthday party or something. Full-skirted gingham
frock. Her little doves seem well formed already. Precocious
pet!
Monday. Rainy morning. ‘Ces matins gris si doux. . . .’ M y white
pyjamas have a lilac design on the back. I am like one of those
inflated pale spiders you see in old gardens. Sitting in the middle
of a luminous web and giving little jerks to this or that strand.
My web is spread all over the house as I listen from my chair
where I sit like a wily wizard. Is Lo in her room? Gently I tug on
the silk. She is not. Just heard the toilet paper cylinder make its
staccato sound as it is turned; and no footfalls has my outflung
filament traced from the bathroom back to her room. Is she still
brushing her teeth (the only sanitary act Lo performs with real
zest)? No. The bathroom door has just slammed, so one has to feel
elsewhere about the house for the beautiful warm-coloured prey.
Let us have a strand of silk descend the stairs. I satisfy myself by
this means that she is not in the kitchen— not banging the re­
frigerator door or screeching at her detested mamma (who, I
suppose, is enjoying her third, cooing and subduedly mirthful,
telephone conversation of the morning). Well, let us grope, and
hope. Ray-like, I glide in thought to the parlour and find the
radib silent (and mamma still talking to Mrs Chatfield or Mrs
Hamilton, very softly, flushed, smiling, cupping the telephone
with her free hand, denying by implication that she denies those
amusing rumours, rumour, roomer, whispering intimately, as she
never does, the clear-cut lady, in face to face talk). So my nymphet
is not in the house at all! Gone! What I thought was a prismatic
weave turns out to be but an old grey cobweb, the house is
empty, is dead. And then comes Lolita’s soft sweet chuckle
through my half-open door, 'Don’t tell Mother but I ’ve eaten all
your bacon.’ Gone when I scuttle out of my room. Lolita, where
are you? M y breakfast tray, lovingly prepared by my landlady,
leers at me toothlessly, ready to be taken in. Lola, Lolita!
Tuesday. Clouds again interfered with that picnic on that un­
attainable lake. Is it Fate scheming. Yesterday I tried on before
the mirror a new pair of bathing trunks.
Wednesday. In the afternoon, Haze (common-sensical shoes,
tailor-made dress), said she was driving downtown to buy a

50

present for a friend of a friend of hers, and would I please come
too because I have such a wonderful taste in textures and per­
fumes. ‘Choose your favourite seduction/ she purred. W hat could
Humbert, being in the perfume business, do? She had me cornered
between the front porch and her car. ‘Hurry up/ she said as I
laboriously doubled up my large body in order to crawl in (still
desperately devising a means of escape). She had started the
engine, and was genteelly swearing at a backing and turning
truck in front that had just brought old invalid Miss Opposite
a brand new wheel chair, when my Lolita’s sharp voice came
from the parlour window: ‘You! Where are you going? I ’m
coming too! Wait!’ ‘Ignore her/ yelped Haze (killing the motor);
alas for my fair driver; Lo was already pulling at the door on
my side. ‘This is intolerable/ began Haze; but Lo had scrambled
in, shivering with glee. ‘Move your bottom, you/ said Lo. ‘L o !’
cried Haze (sideglancing at me, hoping I would throw rude Lo
out). ‘And behold/ said Lo (not for the first time), as she jerked
back, as the car leapt forward. ‘It is intolerable/ said Haze,
violently getting into second, ‘that a child should be so illmannered. And so very persevering. When she knows she is un­
wanted. And needs a bath.’
My knuckles lay against the child’s blue jeans. She was bare­
footed; her toenails showed remnants o f cherry-red polish and
there was a bit of adhesive tape across her big toe; and, God,
what would I not have given to kiss then and there those delicate­
boned, long-toed, monkeyish feet! Suddenly her hand slipped
into mine and without our chaperon’s seeing, I held, and stroked,
and squeezed that little hot. paw, all the way to the store. The
wings of the driver’s Marlenesque nose shone, having shed or
burned up their ration of powder, and she kept up an elegant
monologue anent the local traffic, and smiled in profile, and
pouted in profile, and beat her painted lashes in profile, while I
prayed we would never get to that store, but we did.
I have nothing else to report, save, primo: that big Haze had
little Haze sit behind on our way home, and secundo: that the lady
decided to keep Humbert’s Choice for the backs o f her own
shapely ears.
Thursday. We are paying with hail and gale for the tropical
beginning of the month. In a volume of the Toting People's

Encyclopaedia, I found a map of the States that a child’s pencil had
started copying out on a sheet of lightweight paper,, upon the
other side of which, counter to the unfinished outline of Florida
and the Gulf, there was a mimeographed list of names referring,
evidently, to her class at the Ramsdale school. It is a poem I know
already by heart.
Angel, Grace
Austin, Floyd
Beale, Jack
Beale, Mary
Buck, Daniel
Byron, Marguerite
Campbell, Alice
Carmine, Rose
Chatfield, Phyllis
Clarke, Gordon
Cowan, John
Cowan, Marion
Duncan, Walter
Falter, Ted
Fantazia, Stella
Flashman, Irving
Fox, George
Glave, Mabel
Goodale, Donald
Green, Lucinda
Hamilton, M ary Rose
Haze, Dolores
Honeck, Rosaline
Knight, Kenneth
McCoo, Virginia
McCrystal, Vivian
McFate, Aubrey
Miranda, Anthony
Miranda, Viola
Rosato, Emil
Schlenker, Lena
Scott, Donald
Sheridan, Agnes
Sherva, Oleg
Smith, Plazel
Talbot, Edgar

Talbot, Edwin
Wain, Lull
Williams, Ralph
Windmuller, Louise
A poem, a poem, forsoothl So strange and sweet was it to
discover this TIaze, Dolores’ (she!) in its special bower of names,
with its bodyguard o f roses— a fairy princess between her two
maids of honour. I am trying to analyse the spine-thrill of delight
it gives me, this name among all those others. W hat is it that
excites me almost to tears (hot, opalescent, thick tears that poets
and lovers shed)? What is it? The tender anonymity o f this name
with its formal veil (‘Dolores’) and that abstract transposition of
first name and surname, which is like a pair of new pale gloves
or a mask? Is ‘mask’ the keyword? Is it because there is always
delight in the semi-translucent mystery, the flowing charshaf,
through which the flesh and the eye you alone are elected to
know smile in passing at you alone? O r is it because I can
imagine so well the rest of the colourful classroom around my
dolorous and hazy darling: Grace and her ripe pimples; Ginny
and her laggingleg; Gordon, the haggard masturbator; Duncan,
the foul-smelling clown; nail-biting Agnes; Viola, o f the black­
heads and the bouncing bust; pretty Rosaline; dark M ary Rose;
adorable Stella, who has let strangers touch her; Ralph, IWho
bullies and steals; Irving, for whom I am sorry. And there she is
there, lost in the middle, gnawing a pencil, detested b y teachers,
all the boys’ eyes on her hair and neck, my Lolita.
Friday. I long for some terrific disaster. Earthquake. Spec­
tacular explosion. Her mother is messily but instantly and per­
manently eliminated, along with everybody else for miles around.
Lolita whimpers in my arms. A free man, I enjoy her among the
ruins. Her surprise, my explanations, demonstrations, ujlulations.
Idle and idiotic fancies! A brave Humbert would have played
with her most disgustingly (yesterday, for instance, when she was
again in my room to show me her drawings, school-artware); he
might have bribed her— and got aw ay with it. A simpler and more
practical fellow would have soberly stuck to various commercial
substitutes if you know where to go, I don’t. Despite my manly
looks, I am horribly timid. M y romantic soul gets all clammy
and shivery at the thought of running into some awful indecent

unpleasantness. Those ribald sea monsters. 'Mats allez-y> allez-yP
Annabel skipping on one foot to get into her shorts, I seasick
with rage, trying to screen her.
Same date, later, quite late. I have turned on the light to take
down a dream. It had an evident antecedent. Haze at dinner had
benevolently proclaimed that since the weather bureau promised
a sunny weekend we would go to the lake Sunday after church.
As I lay in bed, erotically musing before trying to go to sleep, I
thought of a final scheme how to profit by the picnic to come. I
was aware that mother Haze hated my darling for her being
sweet on me. So I planned my lake day with a view to satisfying
the mother. To her alone would I talk; but at some appropriate
moment I would say I had left my wrist watch or my sunglasses
in that glade yonder— and plunge with my nymphet into the
wood. Reality at this juncture withdrew, and the Quest for the
Glasses turned into a quiet little orgy with a singularly knowing,
cheerful, corrupt and compliant Lolita behaving as reason knew
she could not possibly behave. At 3 a.m. I swallowed a sleeping
pill, and presently, a dream that was not a sequel but a parody
revealed to me, with a kind of meaningful clarity, the lake I had
never yet visited: it was glazed over with a sheet of emerald ice,
and a pockmarked Eskimo was trying in vain to break it with a
pickaxe, although imported mimosas and oleanders flowered on
its gravelly banks. I am sure Dr Blanche Schwarzmann would
have paid me a sack of schillings for adding such a libidream to
her files. Unfortunately, the rest of it was frankly eclectic. Big
Haze and little Haze rode on horseback around the lake, and I
rode too, dutifully bobbing up and down, bowlegs astraddle
although there was no horse between them, only elastic air— one
of those little omissions due to the absent-mindedness of the
dream agent.
Saturday. M y heart is still thumping. I still squirm and emit
low moans of remembered embarrassment.
Dorsal view. Glimpse of shiny skin between T-shirt and white
gym shorts. Bending, over a window sill, in the act of tearing off
leaves from a poplar outside while engrossed in torrential talk
with a newspaper boy below (Kenneth Knight, I suspect) who
had just propelled the Ramsdale Journal with a very precise thud
on to the porch. I began creeping up to her— ‘crippling’ up to

her, as pantomimists say. M y arms and legs were convex surfaces
between which— rather than upon which— I slowly progressed by
some neutral means of locomotion: Humbert the Wounded
Spider. I must have taken hours to reach her: I seemed to see her
through the wrong end of a telescope, and toward her taut little
rear I moved like some paralytic, on soft distorted limbs, in
terrible concentration. A t last I was right behind her when I had
the unfortunate idea of blustering a trifle— shaking her by the
scruff of the neck and that sort o f thing to cover my real manage,
and she said in a shrill brief whine: ‘Gut it out!’— most coarsely,
the little wench, and with a ghastly grin Humbert the Humble
beat a gloomy retreat while she went on wisecracking street­
ward.
But now listen to what happened next. After lunch I was
reclining in a low chair trying to read. Suddenly two deft little
hands were over my eyes: she had crept up behind as if re-enacting,
in a ballet sequence, my morning manoeuvre. Her fingers were a
luminous crimson as they tried to blot out the sun, and she
uttered hiccups o f laughter and jerked this way and that as I
stretched my arm sideways and backwards without otherwise
changing my recumbent position. M y hand swept over her agile
^giggling legs, and the book like a sleigh left my lap, and Mrs Haze
strolled up and said indulgently; ‘Just slap her hard if she inter­
feres with your scholarly meditations. How I love this garden [no
exclamation mark in her tone]. Isn't it divine in the sun [no
question mark either].’ And with a sigh of feigned content, the
obnoxious lady sank down on the grass and looked up at the sky
as she leaned back on her splayed-out hands, and presently an
old grey tennis ball bounced over her, and L .’s voice came from
the house haughtily: ‘Pardonnez, Mother. I was not aiming at you.*
O f course not, my hot downy darling.

this p r o v e d to be the last of twenty entries or so. It will be

seen from them that for all the devil’s inventiveness, the scheme
remained daily the same. First he would tempt me— and then
thwart me, leaving me with a dull pain in the very root of my
being. I knew, exactly what I wanted to do, and how to do it,
without impinging on a child’s chastity; after all, I had had some
experience in my life of pederosis; had visually possessed dappled
nymphets in parks; had wedged my wary and bestial way into
the hottest, most crowded corner of a city bus full of strap-hanging
schoolchildren. But for almost three weeks I had been interrupted
in all my pathetic machinations. The agent of these interruptions
was usually the Haze woman (who, as the reader will mark, was
more afraid of Lo’s deriving some pleasure from me than o f my
enjoying Lo). The passion I had developed for that nymphet—
for the first nymphet in my life that could be reached at last by
my awkward, aching, timid claws— would have certainly landed
me again in a sanatorium, had not the devil realized that I was
to be granted some relief if he wanted to have me as a plaything
for some time longer.
The reader has .also marked the curious Mirage of the Lake.
It would have been logical on the part of Aubrey McFate (as I
would like to dub that devil of mine) to arrange a small treat for
me on the promised beach, in the presumed forest. Actually, the
promise Mrs Haze had made was a fraudulent one: she had not
told me that Mary Rose Hamilton (a dark little beauty in her
own right) was to come too, and that the two nymphets would be
whispering apart, and playing apart, and having a good time all
by themselves, while Mrs Haze and her handsome lodger con­
versed sedately in the semi-nude, far from prying eyes. Incident­
ally, eyes did pry and tongues did wag. How queer life is! We
hasten to alienate the very fates we intended to woo. Before my
actual arrival, my landlady had planned to have an old spinster,

56

a Miss Phalen, whose mother had been cook in Mrs H aze’s
family, come to stay in the house with Lolita and me, while
Mrs Haze, a career girl at heart, sought some suitable job in the
nearest city. Mrs Haze had seen the whole situation very clearly:
the bespectacled, round-backed Herr Humbert coming with his
Gentral-European trunks to gather dust in his corner behind a
heap of old books; the unloved ugly little daughter firmly super­
vised by Miss Phalen who had already once had my Lo under
her buzzard wing (Lo recalled that 1 9 4 4 summer with an in­
dignant shudder); and Mrs Haze herself engaged as a receptionist
in a great elegant city. But a not too complicated event interfered
with that programme. Miss Phalen broke her hip in Savannah,
Ga., on the very day I arrived in Ramsdale.

the Su n d a y a f t e r the Saturday already described proved

to
be as bright as the weatherman had predicted. When putting the
breakfast things back on the chair outside my room for my good
landlady to remove at her convenience, I gleaned the following
situation by listening from the landing across which I had softly
crept to the banisters in my old bedroom slippers— the only old
things about me.
There had been another row. Mrs Hamilton had telephoned
that her daughter 'was running a temperature’. Mrs Haze in­
formed her daughter that the picnic would have to be postponed.
Hot little Haze informed big cold Haze that, if so, she would not
go with her to church. Mother said ‘very well5 and left.
I had come out on the landing straight after shaving, soapyearlobed, still in my white pyjamas with the cornflower blue (not
the lilac) design on the back; I now wiped off the soap, perfumed
my hair and armpits, slipped on a purple silk dressing gown, and,
humming nervously, went down the stairs in quest of Lo.

L I want my learned readers to participate in the scene I am
about to replay; I want them to examine its every detail and see
for themselves how careful, how chaste, the whole wine-sweet
event is if viewed with what my lawyer has called, in a private
talk we have had, ‘impartial sympathy5. So let us get started. I
have a difficult job before me. i
Main character: Humbert the Hummer. Time: Sunday morn­
ing in June. Place: sunlit living room. Props: old, candy-striped
davenport, magazines, phonograph, Mexican knick-knacks (the
late M r Harold E. Haze— God bless the good man— had en­
gendered my darling at the siesta hour in a blue-washed room,
on a honeymoon trip to Vera Cruz, and mementoes, among these
Dolores, were all over the place). She wore that day a pretty print
dress that I had seen on her once before, ample in the skirt, tight
in the bodice, short-sleeved, pink, checkered with darker pink,
and, to complete the colour scheme, she had painted her lips and
was holding in her hollowed hands a beautiful, banal, Eden-red
apple. She was not shod, however, for church. And her white
Sunday purse lay discarded near the phonograph.
M y heart beat like a drum as she sat down, cool skirt balloon­
ing, subsiding, on the sofa next to me, and played with her glossy
fruit. She tossed it up into the sun-dusted air, and caught it— it
made a cupped polished plop,
Humbert Humbert intercepted the apple.
‘Give it back,5 she pleaded, showing the marbled flush o f her
palms. I produced Delicious. She grasped it and bit into it, and
my heart was like snow under thin crimson skin, and with the
monkeyish nimbleness that was so typical of that American
nymphet, she snatched out of my abstract grip the magazine I
had opened (pity no film has recorded the curious pattern, the
monogrammic linkage of our simultaneous or overlapping moves).
Rapidly, hardly hampered by the disfigured apple she held, Lo
flipped violently through the pages in search of something she
wished Humbert to see. Found it at last. I faked interest by
bringing my head so close that her hair touched my temple and
her arm brushed my cheek as she wiped her lips with her wrist.
Because of the burnished mist through which I peered at the
picture, I was slow in reacting to it, and her bare knees rubbed
and knocked impatiently against each other. Dimly there came
58

into view: a surrealist painter relaxing, supine, on a beach, and
near him, likewise supine, a plaster replica of the Venus di Milo,
half-buried in sand. Picture of the Week, said the legend. I
whisked the whole obscene thing away. Next moment, in a sham
effort to retrieve it, she was all over me. Caught her by her thin
knobby wrist. The magazine escaped to the floor like a flustered
fowl. She twisted herself free, recoiled, and lay back in the righthand corner of the davenport. Then, with perfect simplicity, the
impudent child extended her legs across my lap.
By this time I was in a state of excitement bordering on in­
sanity; but I also had the cunning of the insane. Sitting there, on
the sofa, I managed to attune, by a series o f stealthy movements,
my masked lust to her guileless limbs. It was no easy matter to
divert the little maiden’s attention while I performed the obscure
adjustments necessary for the success of the trick. Talking fast,
lagging behind my own breath, catching up with it, mimicking
a sudden toothache to explain the breaks in my patter— and all
the while keeping a maniac’s inner eye on my distant golden goal,
I cautiously increased the magic friction that was doing away, in
an illusional, if not factual, sense, with the physically irre­
movable, but psychologically very friable texture o f the material
divide (pyjamas and robe) between the weight of two sunburnt
legs, resting athwart my lap, and the hidden tumour of an un­
speakable passion. Having, in the course o f my patter, hit upon
something nicely mechanical, I recited, garbling them slightly,
the words of a foolish song that was then popular— O my Carmen,
my little Carmen, something, something, those something nights,
and the stars, and the cars, and the bars, and the barmen; I kept
repeating this automatic stuff and holding her under its spell
(special because of the garbling), and all the while I was mortally
afraid that some act of God might interrupt me, might remove the
golden load in the sensation of which all my being seemed con­
centrated, and this anxiety forced me to work, for the first minute
or so, more hastily than was consensual with deliberately modu­
lated enjoyment. The stars that sparkled, and the cars that
parkled, and the bars, and the barmen, were presently taken over
by her; her voice stole and corrected the tune I had been muti­
lating. She was musical and apple-sweet. Her legs twitched a
little as they lay across my live lap; I stroked them; there she

L I want my learned readers to participate in the scene I am
about to replay; I want them to examine its every detail and see
for themselves how careful, how chaste, the whole wine-sweet
event is if viewed with what my lawyer has called, in a private
talk we have had, ‘impartial sympathy’. So let us get started. I
have a difficult job before me.
Main character: Humbert the Hummer. Time: Sunday morn­
ing in June. Place: sunlit living room. Props: old, candy-striped
davenport, magazines, phonograph, Mexican knick-knacks (the
late M r Harold E. Haze— God bless the good m a n -h a d en­
gendered my darling at the siesta hour in a blue-washed room,
on a honeymoon trip to Vera Cruz, and mementoes, among these
Dolores, were all over the place). She wore that day a pretty print
dress that I had seen on her once before, ample in the skirt, tight
in the bodice, short-sleeved, pink, checkered with darker pink,
and, to complete the colour scheme, she had painted her lips and
was holding in her hollowed hands a beautiful, banal, Eden-red
apple. She was not shod, however, for church. And her white
Sunday purse lay discarded near the phonograph.
M y heart beat like a drum as she sat down, cool skirt balloon­
ing, subsiding, on the sofa next to me, and played with her glossy
fruit. She tossed it up into the sun-dusted air, and caught it— it
made a cupped polished plop.
Humbert Humbert intercepted the apple.
‘Give it back,’ she pleaded, showing the marbled flush o f her
palms. I produced Delicious. She grasped it and bit into it, and
my heart was like snow under thin crimson skin, and with the
monkeyish nimbleness that was so typical of that American
nymphet, she snatched out of my abstract grip the magazine I
had opened (pity no film has recorded the curious pattern, the
monogrammic linkage of our simultaneous or overlapping moves).
Rapidly, hardly hampered by the disfigured apple she held, Lo
flipped violently through the pages in search of something she
wished Humbert to see. Found it at last. I faked interest by
bringing my head so close that her hair touched my temple and
her arm brushed my cheek as she wiped her lips with her wrist.
Because of the burnished mist through which I peered at the
picture, I was slow in reacting to it, and her bare knees rubbed
and knocked impatiently against each other. Dimly there came
58

into view: a surrealist painter relaxing, supine, on a beach, and
near him, likewise supine, a plaster replica o f the Venus di Milo,
half-buried in sand. Picture o f the Week, said the legend. 1
whisked the whole obscene thing away. Next moment, in a sham
effort to retrieve it, she was all over me. Caught her by her thin
knobby wrist. The magazine escaped to the floor like a flustered
fowl. She twisted herself free, recoiled, and lay back in the righthand corner of the davenport. Then, with perfect simplicity, the
impudent child extended her legs across my lap.
By this time I was in a state of excitement bordering on in ­
sanity; but I also had the cunning of the insane. Sitting there, on
the sofa, I managed to attune, by a series o f stealthy movements,
my masked lust to her guileless limbs. It was no easy matter to
divert the little maiden’s attention while I performed the obscure
adjustments necessary for the success of the trick. Talking fast,
lagging behind my own breath, catching up with it, mimicking
a sudden toothache to explain the breaks in rny patter— and ail
the while keeping a maniac’s inner eye on my distant golden goal,
I cautiously increased the magic friction that was doing away, in
an illusional, if not factual, sense, with the physically irre­
movable, but psychologically very friable texture of the material
divide (pyjamas and robe) between the weight o f two sunburnt
legs, resting athwart my lap, and the hidden tumour o f an un­
speakable passion. Having, in the course of my patter, hit upon
something nicely mechanical, I recited, garbling them slightly,
the words of a .foolish song that was then popular— O my Carm en,
my little Carmen, something, something, those something nights,
and the stars, and the cars, and the bars, and the barmen; I kept
repeating this automatic stuff and holding her under its spell
(special because of the garbling), and all the while I was m ortally
afraid that some act of God might interrupt me, might remove the
golden load in the sensation of which all rny being seemed con­
centrated, and this anxiety forced me to work, for the first m inute
or so, more hastily than was consensual with deliberately m odu­
lated enjoyment. The stars that sparkled, and the cars that
parkled, and the bars, and the barmen, were presently taken over
by her; her voice stole and corrected the tune I hud been m uti­
lating. She was musical and apple-sweet, 1 ier leg-, {witched a
little as they lay across my live lap; 1 stroked mein; there she

59

lolled in the right-hand corner, almost asprawl, Lola the bobbysoxer, devouring her immemorial fruit, singing through its jxiice,
losing her slipper, rubbing the heel of her slippeiiess foot in its
sloppy anklet, against the pile of old magazines heaped on my
left on the sofa— and every movement she made, every shuffle
and ripple, helped me to conceal and to improve the secret
system of tactile correspondence between beast and beauty—
between my gagged, bursting beast and the beauty of her dimpled
body in its innocent cotton frock.
Under my glancing fingertips I felt the minute hairs bristle
ever so slightly along her shins. I lost myself in the pungent but
healthy heat which like summer haze hung about little Haze. Let
her stay, let her stay. . . . As she strained to chuck the core of her
abolished apple into the fender, her young weight, her shameless
innocent shanks and round bottom, shifted in my tense, tortured,
surreptitiously labouring lap; and all of a sudden a mysterious
change came over my senses. I entered a plane of being where
nothing mattered, save the infusion of joy brewed within my body.
What had begun as a delicious distension of my innermost roots
became a glowing tingle which now had reached that state of
absolute security, confidence and reliance not found elsewhere in
conscious life. With the deep hot sweetness thus established and
well on its way to the ultimate convulsion, I felt I could slow
down in order to prolong the glow. Lolita had been safely solipsized. The implied sun pulsated in the supplied poplars; we were
fantastically and divinely alone; I watched her, rosy, gold-dusted,
beyond the veil of my controlled delight, unaware of it, alien to
it, and the sun was on her lips, and her lips were apparently still
forming the words of the Carmen-barmen ditty that no longer
reached my consciousness. Everything was now ready. The
nerves of pleasure had been laid bare. The corpuscles of Krauze
were entering the phase of frenzy. The least pressure would suffice
to set all paradise loose. I had ceased to be Humbert the Hound,
the sad-eyed degenerate cur clasping the boot that would pre­
sently kick him away. I was above the tribulations of ridicule,
beyond the possibilities of retribution. In my self-made seraglio,
I was a radiant and robust Turk, deliberately, in the full con­
sciousness of his freedom, postponing the moment of actually
enjoying the youngest and frailest of his slaves. Suspended on the

60

brink of that voluptuous abyss (a nicety of physiological equipoise
comparable to certain techniques in the arts) I kept repeating
chance words after her— barmen, alarmin’, my charmin , my
carmen, ahmen, ahahamen— as one talking and laughing in his
sleep while my happy hand crept up her sunny leg as far as the
shadow of decency allowed. The day before she had collided with
the heavy chest in the hall and— ‘Look, look!’— I gasped ‘look
what you’ve done, what you’ve done to yourself, ah, look’ ; for
there was, I swear, a yellowish-violet bruise on her lovely
nymphet thigh which my huge hairy hand massaged and slowly
enveloped— and because of her very perfunctory underthings,
there seemed to be nothing to prevent my muscular thumb from
reaching the hot hollow of her groin— just as you might tickle
and caress a giggling child— just that— and: ‘Oh, it’s nothing at
all,’ she cried with a sudden shrill note in her voice, and she
wriggled, and squirmed, and threw her head back, and her teeth
rested on her glistening underlip as she half-turned away, and my
moaning mouth, gentlemen of the jury, almost reached her bare
neck, while I crushed out against her left buttock the last throb
of the longest ecstasy man or monster had ever known.
Immediately afterward (as if we had been struggling and now
my grip had eased) she rolled off the sofa and jumped to her feet—
to her foot, rather— in order to attend to the formidably loud
telephone that may have been ringing for ages as far as I was
concerned. There she stood and blinked, cheeks aflame, hair
awry, her eyes passing over me as lightly as they did over the
furniture, and as she listened or spoke (to her mother who was
telling her to come to lunch with her at the Chatfields— neither
Lo nor Hum knew yet what busybody Haze was plotting), she
kept tapping the edge of the table with the slipper she held in her
hand. Blessed be the Lord, she had noticed nothing!
With a handkerchief of multicoloured silk, on which her listen­
ing eyes rested in passing, I wiped the sweat off my forehead, and,
immersed in an euphoria of release, rearranged my royal robes.
She was still at the telephone, haggling with her mother (wanted
to be fetched by car, my little Carmen) when, singing louder and
louder, I swept up the stairs and set a deluge o f steaming water
roaring into the tub.
°
At this point I may as well give the words of that song-hit in

61

screen and I a humble hunchback abusing myself in the dark.
The afternoon drifted on and on, in ripe silence, and the sappy
tall trees seemed to be in the know; and desire, even stronger than
before, began to afflict me again. Let her come soon, I prayed,
addressing a lone God. and u hile mamma is in the kitchen, let a
lepeiiunn of the davenport scene be staged, please, I adore her so
horiibly.
No: ‘horribly’ is the wrong word. The elation with which the
vision of new delights filled me was not horrible but pathetic. I
qualify it as pathetic. Pathetic— because despite the insatiable fire
of my venereal appetite, I intended, with the most fervent force
and foresight, to protect the purity of that twelve-year-old child.
And now see how I was repaid for m y pains. No Lolita came
home— she had gone with the Chatfields to a movie. The table
was laid with more elegance than usual: candlelight, if you please.
In this mawkish aura, Mrs [laze gently touched the silver on
both sides of her plate as if touching piano keys, and smiled down
on her empty plate (was on a diet), and said she hoped I liked
the salad (recipe lifted from a woman’s magazine). She hoped I
liked the cold cuts, too. It had been a perfect day. Mrs Ghatfield
was a lovely person. Phyllis, her daughter, was going to a summer
camp tomorrow. For three weeks. Lolita, it was decided, would go
Thursday. Instead of waiting till July, as had been initially
planned. And stay there after Phyllis had left. T ill school began.
A pretty prospect, my heart.
Oh, how I was taken aback— for did it not mean I was losing
my darling, just when I had secretly made her mine? To explain
my giim mood, 1 had to use the same toothache I had already
simulated in the morning. M -st have been an enormous molar,
with an abscess as big as a maraschino cherry,
‘We have,’ said Haze, ‘an excellent dentist. O ur neighbour, in
fact. Dr Quilty. Uncle or cousin, I think, of the playwright. Think
it will pass.1 W< 11, ju-,1 o, vou wish. In the fall I shall have him
“ biare” her, as my mother used to say. It may curb Lo a little. I am
afiaid she has been botliei n.*r you frightfully all these days. And
we air in for a roupk ot stormy ones before she goes. She has
flatly refused to go, and I confess I left her with the Chatfields
oerause I dreaded to fate her alone just yet. T he movie may
moiiify her. Phyllis is a \cry sweet girl, and there is no earthly

63
■..... . .... .. ...

Jr«cf

t

ifflV

reason for Lo to dislike her. Really, monsieur, I am very sorry
about that tooth of yours. It would be so much more reasonable
to let me contact Ivor Quilty first thing tomorrow morning if it
still hurts. And, you know, I think a summer camp is so much
healthier, and— well, it is all so much more reasonable as I say than
to mope on a suburban lawn and use mamma’s lipstick, and pursue
shy studious gentlemen, and go into tantrums at the least pro­
vocation.’
‘Are you sure,’ I said at last, ‘that she will be happy there?’
(lame, lamentably lame!).
‘She’d better,’ said Haze. ‘And it won’t be all play either. The
camp is run by Shirley Holmes— you know, the woman who
wrote Carnpfire Girl. Gamp will teach Dolores Haze to grow in
many things— health, knowledge, temper. And particularly in a
sense of responsibility toward other people. Shall we take these
candles with us and sit for a while on the piazza, or do you want
to go to bed and nurse that tooth?’
Nurse that tooth.

*5
ne xt d a y t h e y drove downtown to buy things needed for the

camp: any wearable purchase worked wonders with Lo. She
seemed her usual sarcastic self at dinner. Immediately afterwards,
she went up to her room to plunge into the comic books acquired
for rainy days at Gamp Q,. (they were so thoroughly sampled by
Thursday that she left them behind). I too retired to my lair, and
wrote letters. M y plan now was to leave for the seaside and then,
when school began, resume my existence in the Haze household;
for I knew already that I could not live without the child. On
Tuesday they went shopping again, and I was asked to answer
the phone if the camp mistress rang up during their absence. She
64

t* . S3—r-

liiii, Hill Hull -I “ • '■--------—

did; and a month or so later we had occasion to recall our
pleasant chat. That Tuesday, Lo had her dinner in her room.
She had been crying after a routine row with her mother and,
as had happened on former occasions, had not wished me to see
her swollen eyes: she had one of those tender complexions that
after a good cry get all blurred and inflamed, and morbidly
alluring. I regretted keenly her mistake about my private aesthe­
tics, for I simply love that tinge of Botticellian pink, that raw rose
about the lips, those wet, matted eyelashes; and, naturally, her
bashful whim deprived me of many opportunities o f specious
consolation. There was, however, more to it than I thought. As
we sat in the darkness of the veranda (a rude wind had put out
her red candles), Haze, with a dreary laugh, said she had told Lo
that her beloved Humbert thoroughly approved of the whole
camp idea ‘and now5, added Haze, ‘the child throws a fit; pretext:
you and I want to get rid of her; actual reason: I told her w e
would exchange tomorrow for plainer stuff some much too cute
night things that she bullied me into buying for her. You see, she
sees herself as a starlet; I see her as a sturdy, healthy, but decidedly
homely kid. This, I guess, is at the root of our troubles.5
On Wednesday I managed to waylay Lo for a few seconds: she
was on the landing, in sweatshirt and green-stained white shorts,
rummaging in a trunk. I said something meant to be friendly and
funny but she only emitted a snort without looking at me.
Desperate, dying Humbert patted her clumsily on her coccyx,
and she struck him, quite painfully, with one of the late M r H aze’s
shoetrees. ‘Doublecrosser5, she said as I crawled downstairs'rub­
bing my arm with a great show of rue. She did not condescend
to have dinner with Hum and mum: washed her hair and went
to bed with her ridiculous books. And on Thursday quiet Mrs
Haze drove her to Gamp Q,.
As greater authors than I have put it: ‘Let readers imagine’,
etc. On second thought, I may as well give those imaginations a
kick in the pants. I knew I had fallen in love with Lolita for ever;
but I also knew she would not be for ever Lolita. She would be
thirteen on January i. In two years or so she would cease being a
nymphet and would turn into a ‘young girl5, and then, into a
college girl that horror of horrors. The words ‘for ever5 re­
ferred only to my own passion, to the eternal Lolita as reflected in
G

65

my blood. The Lolita whose iliac crests had not yet flared, the
Lolita that today I could touch and smell and hear and see, the
Lolita of the strident voice and the rich brown hair— of the bangs
and the swirls at the sides and the curls at the back, and the
sticky hot neck, and the vulgar vocabulary— ‘revolting5, ‘super5,
‘luscious’, ‘goon5, ‘drip5— that Lolita, my Lolita, poor Catullus
would lose for ever. So how could I afford not to see her for two
months of summer insomnias? Two whole months out of the two
years of her remaining nymphage! Should I disguise myself as. a
sombre old-fashioned girl, gawky Mile Humbert, and put up my
tent on the outskirts of Camp Q,. in the hope that its russet
nymphets would clamour: ‘Let us adopt that deep-voiced D .P.5,
and drag the sad, shyly smiling Berthe au Grand Pied to their rustic
hearth. Berthe will sleep with Dolores Haze!
Idle dry dreams. Two months of beauty, two months of tender­
ness, would be squandered for ever, and I could do nothing about
it, but nothing, mais rien.
One drop of rare honey, however, that Thursday did hold in
its acorn cup. Haze was to drive her to the camp in the early
morning. Upon sundry sounds of departure reaching me, I rolled
out of bed and leaned out of the window. Under the poplars, the
car was already athrob. On the sidewalk, Louise stood shading
her eyes with her hand, as if the little traveller were already riding
into the low morning sun. The gesture proved to be premature.
‘Hurry up!5shouted Haze. M y Lolita, who was half in and about
to slam the car door, wind down the glass, wave to Louise and the
poplars (whom and which she was never to see again), inter­
rupted the motion of fate: she looked up— and dashed back into
the house (Haze furiously calling after her). A moment later I
heard my sweetheart running up the stairs. M y heart expanded
with such force that it almost blotted me out. I hitched up the
pants of my pyjamas, flung the door open: and simultaneously
Lolita arrived, in her Sunday frock, stamping, panting, and then
she was in my arms, her innocent mouth melting under the
ferocious pressure of dark male jaws, my palpitating darling! The
next instant. I heard her— alive, unraped— clatter downstairs.
The motion of fate was resumed. The blonde leg was pulled in,
the car door was slammed— was re-slammed— and driver Haze
at the violent wheel, rubber-red lips writhing in angry, inaudible

66

speech, swung my darling away, while unnoticed by them or
Louise, old Miss Opposite, an invalid, feebly but rhythmicallywaved from her vined veranda.

16
t h e h o l l o w of m y hand was still ivory-full of Lolita— full o f

the feel of her pre-adolescently incurved back, that ivory-smooth,
sliding sensation of her skin through the thin frock that I had
worked up and down while I held her. I marched into her
tumbled room, threw open the door of the closet and plunged
into a heap of crumpled things that had touched her. There was
particularly one pink texture, sleazy, torn, with a faintly acrid
odour in the seam. I wrapped in it Humbert’s huge engorged
heart, A poignant chaos was welling within me— but I had to
drop those things and hurriedly regain my composure, as I be­
came aware of the maid’s velvety voice calling me softly from the
stairs. She had a message for me, she said; and, topping my
automatic thanks with a kindly ‘you’re welcome’, good Louise
left an unstamped, curiously clean-looking letter in my shaking
hand.
This is a confession: I love you [so the letter began; and for
a distorted moment I mistook its hysterical scrawl for a school­
girl’s scribble]. Last Sunday in church— bad you, who refused
to come to see our beautiful new windows!— only last Sunday,
my dear one, when I asked the Lord what to do about it, I was
told to act as I am acting now. Y ou see, there is no alternative.
I have loved you from the minute I saw you. I am a passionate
and lonely woman and you are the love of my life.
Now, my dearest, dearest, mon cher, cher monsieur, you have
read this; now you know. So, w ill you please, at once, pack and
leave. This is a landlady’s order. l am dismissing a lodger. I am

kicking you out. Go! Scram! Departez/ I shall be back by dinner­
time, if I do eighty both ways and don’t have" an accident (but
what would it matter?), and I do not wish to find you in the
house. Please, please, leave at once, now, do not even read this
absurd note to the end. Go. Adieu.
The situation, cheri, is quite simple. O f course, I know with
absolute certainty that I am nothing to you, nothing at all. Oh
yes, you enjoy talking to me (and kidding poor me), you have
grown fond of our friendly house, of the books I like, of my
lovely garden, even of Lo’s noisy ways— but I am nothing to
you. Right? Right. Nothing to you whatever. But if, after
reading my ‘confession’, you decided, in your dark romantic
European way, that I am attractive enough for you to take
advantage of my letter and make a pass at me, then you would
be a criminal— worse than a kidnapper who rapes a child. You
see, cheri. I f you decided to stay, i f l found you at home (which
I know I won’ t— and that’s why I am able to go on like this),
the fa d of your remaining would only mean one thing: that
you want me as much as I do you: as a lifelong mate; and that
you are ready to link up your life with mine for ever and ever
and be a father to my little girl.
Let me rave and ramble on for a teeny while more, my
dearest, since I know this letter has been by now torn by you,
and its pieces (illegible) in the vortex of the toilet. M y dearest,
mon ires, tres cker, what a world of love I have built up for you
during this miraculous June! I know how reserved you are,
how ‘British’. Your old-world x'eticence, your sense o f decorum
may be shocked by the boldness of an American girl! You who
conceal your strongest feelings must think me a shameless little
idiot for throwing open my poor bruised heart like this. In
years gone by, many disappointments came my way. M r Haze
was a splendid person, a sterling soul, but he happened to be
twenty years my senior, and— well, let us not gossip about the
past. M y dearest, your curiosity must be well satisfied if you
have ignored my request and read this letter to the bitter end.
Never mind. Destroy it and go. Do not forget to leave the key
on the desk in your room. And some scrap of address so that I
could refund the twelve dollars I owe you till the end of the
month. Goodbye, dear one. Pray for me— if you ever pray,

c. H.
What I present here is what I remember of the letter, and what
I remember of the letter I remember verbatim (including that
6 8

awful French). It was at least twice longer. I have left out a
lyrical passage which I more or less skipped at the time, con­
cerning Lolita’s brother who died at two when she was four,
and how much I would have liked him. Let me see what else can
I say? Yes. There is just a chance that ‘the vortex of the toilet’
(where the letter did go) is my own matter-of-fact contribution.
She probably begged me to make a special fire to consume it.
My first movement was one o f repulsion and retreat. M y
second was like a friend’s calm hand falling upon my shoulder
and bidding me take my time. I did. I came out of my daze and
found myself still in Lo’s room. A full-page ad ripped out o f a
slick magazine was affixed to the wall above the bed, between a
crooner’s mug and the lashes of a movie actress. It represented a
dark-haired young husband with a kind of drained look in his
Irish eyes. He was modelling a robe by So-and-So and holding a
bridge-like tray by So-and-So, with breakfast for two. The legend,
by the Rev. Thomas Morell, called him a ‘conquering hero’. The
thoroughly conquered lady (not shown) was presumably prop­
ping herself up to receive her half o f the tray. How her bed­
fellow was to get under the bridge without some messy mishap was
not clear. Lo had drawn a jocose arrow to the haggard lover’s face
and had put, in block letters: H.H, And indeed, despite a dif­
ference of a few years, the resemblance was striking. Under this
was another picture, also a coloured ad. A distinguished play­
wright was solemnly smoking a Drome. He always smoked
Dromes. The resemblance was slight. Under this was L o’s chaste
bed, littered with ‘comics’. The enamel had come off the bed­
stead, leaving black, more or less rounded, marks on the white.
Having convinced myself that Louise had left, I got into L o’s bed
and re-read the letter.

gentlemen of t h ejury ! I cannot swear that certain emotions
pertaining to the business in hand— if X may coin an expression—
had not drifted across my mind before. M y mind had not retained
them in any logical form or in any relation to definitely recollected
occasions; but I cannot swear— let me repeat— that X had not
toyed with them (to rig up yet another expression), in my dimness
of thought, in my darkness of passion. There may have been
times— there must have been times, if I know my Humbert—
when I had brought up for detached inspection the idea of
marrying a mature widow (say, Charlotte Haze) with not one
relative left in the wide grey world, merely in order to have my
way with her child (Lo, Lola, Lolita). I am even prepared to tell
my tormenters that perhaps once or twice I had cast an appraiser’s
cold eye at Charlotte’s coral lips and bronze hair and dangerously
low neckline, and had vaguely tried to fit her into a plausible
daydream. This I confess under torture. Imaginary torture,
perhaps, but all the more horrible. I wish I might digress and
tell you more of the pavor nocturnus that would rack me at night
hideously after a chance term had struck me in the random
readings of my boyhood, sdch as peineforte et dure (what a Genius
of Pain must have invented that!) or the dreadful, mysterious,
insidious words ‘trauma’, ‘traumatic event’, and ‘transom’. But
my tale is sufficiently incondite already.
After a while I destroyed the letter and went to my room, and
ruminated, and rumpled my hair, and modelled my purple robe,
and moaned through clenched teeth and suddenly----- Suddenly,
gentlemen of the jury, I felt a Dostoevskian grin dawning (through
the veiy grimace that twisted my lips) like a distant and terrible
sun. I imagined (under conditions of new and perfect visibility)
all the casual caresses her mother’s husband would be able to
lavish on his Lolita. I would hold her against me three times a
day, every day. All my troubles would be expelled, I would be a

healthy man. ‘To hold thee lightly on a gentle knee and print on
thy soft cheek a parent’s kiss. . . .’ Well-read Humbert!
Then, with all possible caution, on mental tiptoe so to speak,
I conjured up Charlotte as a possible mate. By God, I could make
myself bring her that economically halved grapefruit, that sugar­
less breakfast.
Humbert Humbert sweating in the fierce white light, and
howled at, and trodden upon by sweating policemen, is now ready
to make a further ‘statement’ (quel mot!) as he turns his conscience
inside out and rips off its innermost lining. I did not plan to marry
poor Charlotte in order to eliminate her in some vulgar, grue­
some and dangerous manner such as killing her by placing five
bichloride-of-mercury tablets in her preprandial sherry or any­
thing like that; but a delicately allied, pharmacopoeial thought
did tinkle in my sonorous and clouded brain. W hy limit myself
to the modest masked caress I had tried already? Other visions
of venery presented themselves to me swaying and smiling. I saw
myself administering a powerful sleeping potion to both mother
and daughter so as to fondle the latter through the night with
perfect impunity. The house was full of Charlotte’s snore, while
Lolita hardly breathed in her sleep, as still as a painted girlchild. ‘Mother, I swear Kenny never even toured' me.’ ‘You
either lie, Dolores Haze, or it was an incubus.’ No, I would not
go that far.
So Humbert the Cubus schemed and dreamed— and the red
sun of desire and decision (the two things that create a live world)
rose higher and higher, while upon a succession of balconies a
succession of libertines, sparkling glass in hand, toasted the bliss of
past and future nights. Then, figuratively speaking, I shattered
the glass, and boldly imagined (for I was drunk on those visions
by then and underrated the gentleness of m y nature) how even­
tually I might blackmail— no, that is too strong a word— mauvemail big Haze into letting me consort with little Haze by gently
threatening the poor doting Big Dove with desertion if she tried
to bar me from playing with my legal stepdaughter. In a word,
before such an Amazing Offer, before such a vastness and variety
of vistas, I was as helpless as Adam at the preview of early oriental
history, miraged in his apple orchard.
And now take down the following important remark: the artist

in me has been given the upper hand over the gentleman. It is
with a great effort of will that in this memoir I have managed to
tune my style to the tone of the journal that I kept when Mrs
Haze was to me but an obstacle. That journal of mine is no more;
but I have considered it my artistic duty to preserve its intonations
no matter how false and brutal they may seem to me now. For­
tunately, my story has reached a point where I can cease insulting
poor Charlotte for the sake of retrospective verisimilitude.
Wishing to spare poor Charlotte two or three hours of suspense
on a winding road (and avoid, perhaps, a head-on collision that
would shatter our different dreams), I made a thoughtful but
abortive attempt to reach her at the camp by telephone. She had
left half an hour before, and getting Lo instead, I told her—
trembling and brimming with my mastery over fate— that I was
going to marry her mother. I had to repeat it twice because some­
thing was preventing her from giving me her attention. ‘ Gee,that’s
swell,’ she said laughing. ‘When is the wedding? Hold on a sec,
the pup— That pup here has got hold of my sock. Listen— ’ and
she added she guessed she was going to have loads of fun . . . and
I realized as I hung up that a couple of hours at that camp had
been sufficient to blot out with new impressions the image of
handsome Humbert Humbert from little Lolita’s mind. But what
did it matter now? I would get her back as soon as a decent
amount of time after the wedding had elapsed. ‘T he orange
blossom would have scarcely withered on the grave’, as a poet
might have said. But I am no poet. I am only a very conscientious
recorder.
After Louise had gone, I inspected the icebox and, finding it
much too puritanic, walked to town and bought the richest foods
available. I also bought some good liquor and two or three kinds
of vitamins. I was pretty sure that with the aid of these stimulants
and my natural resources, I would avert any embarrassment that
my indifference might incur when called upon to display a strong
and impatient flame. Again and again resourceful Humbert
evoked Charlotte as seen in the raree-show of a manly imagina­
tion. She was well groomed and shapely, this I could say for her,
and she was my Lolita’s big sister— this notion, perhaps, I could
keep up if only I did not visualize too realistically her heavy hips,
round knees, ripe bust, the coarse pink skin of her neck (‘coarse’

by comparison with silk and honey) and all the rest of that sorry
and dull thing: a handsome woman.
The sun made its usual round of the house as the afternoon
ripened into evening. I had a drink. And another. And yet
another. Gin and pineapple juice, my favourite mixture, always
double my energy. I decided to busy myself with our unkempt
lawn. Une petite attention. It was crowded with dandelions, and
a cursed dog— I loathe dogs— had defiled the flat stones where a
sundial had once stood. Most of the dandelions had changed
from suns to moons. The gin and Lolita were dancing in me, and
I almost fell over the folding chairs that I attempted to dislodge.
Incarnadine zebras! There are some eructations that sound like
cheers— at least, mine did. An old fence at the back o f the garden
separated us from the neighbour’s garbage receptacles and lilacs;
but there was nothing between the front end of our lawn (where
it sloped along one side of the house) and the street. Therefore
I was able to watch (with the smirk o f one about to perform a
good action) for the return of Charlotte: that tooth should be
extracted at once. As I lurched and lunged with the hand mower,
bits of grass optically twittering in the low sun, I kept an eye on
that section of suburban street. It curved in from under an arch­
way of huge shade trees, then sped towards us down, down, quite
sharply, past old Miss Opposite’s ivied brick house and highsloping lawn (much trimmer than ours) and disappeared behind
our own front porch which I could not see from where I happily
belched and laboured. The dandelions perished. A reek of sap
mingled with the pineapple. Tw o little girls, Marion and Mabel,
whose comings and goings I had mechanically followed of late
(but who could replace my Lolita?) went toward the avenue
(from which our Lawn Street cascaded), one pushing a bicycle,
the other feeding from a paper bag, both talking at the top of
their sunny voices. Leslie, old Miss Opposite’s gardener and
chauffeur, a very amiable and athletic Negro, grinned at me from
afar and shouted, re-shouted, commented by gesture, that I was
mighty energetic today. The fool dog of the prosperous junk
dealer next door ran after a blue car— not Charlotte’s. The
prettier of the two little girls (Mabel, I think), shorts, halter with
little to halt, bright hair— a nymphet, by Pan!— ran back down
the street crumpling her paper bag and was hidden from this

Green Goat by the frontage of M r and Mrs Humbert’s residence.
A station wagon popped out of the leafy shade of the avenue,
dragging some of it on its roof before the shadows snapped, and
swung by at an idiotic pace, the sweatshirted driver roof-holding
with his left hand and the junkman’s dog tearing alongside.
There was a smiling pause— and then, with a flutter in my breast,
I witnessed the return of the Blue Sedan. I saw it glide downhill
and disappear behind the corner of the house. I had a glimpse of
her calm pale profile. It occurred to me that until she went up­
stairs she would not know whether I had gone or not. A minute
later, with an expression of great anguish on her face, she looked
down at me from the window of Lo’s room. By sprinting upstairs,
I managed to reach that room before she left it.

18
when the bride is a widow and the groom is a widower; when

the former has lived in Our Great Little Town for hardly two
years, and the latter for hardly a month; when Monsieur wants
to get the whole damned thing over with as quickly as possible,
and Madame gives in with a tolerant smile; then, my reader, the
wedding is generally a ‘quiet’ affair. The bride may dispense with
a tiara of orange blossoms securing her fmger-tip veil, nor does
she carry a white orchid in a prayer book. The bride’s little
daughter might have added to the ceremonies uniting H. and H.
a touch of vivid vermeil; but I knew I would not dare be too
tender with cornered Lolita yet, and therefore agreed It was not
worth while tearing the child away from her beloved Camp £L
M y soi-disant passionate and lonely Charlotte was in everyday
life matter-of-fact and gregarious. Moreover, I discovered that
although she could not control her heart or her cries, she was a
woman of principle. Immediately after she had become more or

less my mistress (despite the stimulants, her ‘nervous, eager chiri*
-—a heroic cheri!— had some initial trouble, for which, however,
he amply compensated her by a fantastic display o f old-world
endearments), good Charlotte interviewed me about my relations
with God. I could have answered that on that score my mind was
open; I said, instead— paying my tribute to a pious platitude—
that I believed in a cosmic spirit. Looking down at her fingernails,
she also asked me had I not in my family a certain strange strain.
I countered by inquiring whether she would still want to marry
me if my father’s maternal grandfather had been, say, a Turk,
She said it did not matter a bit; but that, if she ever found out
I did not believe in Our Christian God, she would commit
suicide. She said it so solemnly that it gave me the creeps. It was
then I knew she was a woman o f principle.
Oh, she was very genteel: she said ‘excuse me’ whenever a
slight burp interrupted her flowing speech, called an envelope an
ahnvelope, and when talking to her lady-friends referred to me as
Mr Humbert. I thought it would please her if I entered the com­
munity trailing some glamour after me. On the day o f our wed­
ding a little interview with me appeared in the Society Column
of the Ramsdale Journal, with a photograph of Charlotte, one
eyebrow up and a misprint in her name (‘Hazer’). Despite this
contretemps, the publicity warmed the porcelain cockles o f her
heart— and made my rattles shake with awful glee. By engaging
in church work as well as by getting to know the better mothers
of Lo’s schoolmates, Charlotte in the course o f twenty months or
so had managed to become if not a prominent, at least an accept­
able citizen, but never before had she come under that thrilling
rubrique, and it was I who put her there, M r Edgar H. Humbert
(I threw in the ‘Edgar’ just for the heck of it), ‘writer and ex­
plorer’. M cCoo’s brother, when taking it down, asked me what
I had written. Whatever I told him came out as ‘several books on
Peacock, Rainbow and other poets’. It was also noted that
Charlotte and I had known each other for several years and that
I was a distant relation of her first husband. I hinted I had had
an affair with her thirteen years ago but this was not mentioned
in print. To Charlotte I said that society columns should contain
a shimmer of errors.
Let us go on with this curious tale. When called upon to enjoy

75

my promotion from lodger to lover, did I experience only bitter­
ness and distaste? No. M r Humbert confessed to a certain titillation of his vanity, to some faint tenderness, even to a pattern of
remorse daintily running along the steel of his conspiratorial
dagger. Never had I thought that the rather ridiculous, though
rather handsome Mrs Haze, with her blind faith in the wisdom
of her church and book club, her mannerisms of elocution, her
harsh, cold, contemptuous attitude toward an adorable, downyarmed child of twelve, could turn into such a touching, helpless
creature as soon as I laid my hands upon her which happened
on the threshold of Lolita’s room whither she tremulously backed
repeating ‘no, no, please no’.
The transformation improved her looks. Her smile that had
been such a contrived thing, thenceforth became the radiance of
utter adoration— a radiance having something soft and moist
about it, in which, with wonder, I recognized a resemblance to
the lovely, inane, lost look that Lo had when gloating over a new
kind of concoction at the soda fountain or mutely admiring my
expensive, always trailor-fresh clothes. Deeply fascinated, Xwould
watch Charlotte while she swapped parental woes with some
other lady and made that national grimace of feminine resigna­
tion (eyes rolling up, mouth drooping sideways) which, in an
infantile form I had seen Lo making herself. W e had highballs
before turning in, and with their help, I would manage to evoke
the child while caressing the mother. This was the white stomach
within which my nymphet had been a little curved fish in 1934.
This carefully dyed hair, so sterile to my sense of smell and touch,
acquired at certain lamplit moments in the poster bed the tinge,
if not the texture, of Lolita’s curls. I kept telling myself, as I
wielded my brand-new large-as-life wife, that biologically this
was the nearest I could get to Lolita; that at Lolita’s age, Lotte
had been as desirable a schoolgirl as her daughter was, and as
Lolita’s daughter would be some day. I had my wife unearth
from under a collection of shoes (Mr Haze had a passion for
them, it appears) a thirty-year-old album, so that I might see
how Lotte had looked as a child; and even though the light was
wrong and the dresses graceless, I was able to make out a dim
first version of Lolita’s outline, legs, cheekbones, bobbed nose.
Lottelita, Lolitchen.

So I tom-peeped across the hedges of years, into wan little
windows. And when, by means of pitifully ardent, naively lasci­
vious caresses, she of the noble nipple and massive thigh prepared
me for the performance of my nightly duty, it was still a nymphet’s
scent that in despair I tried to pick up, as I bayed through the
undergrowth of dark decaying forests.
I simply can’t tell you how gentle, how touching my poor wife
was. At breakfast, in the depressingly bright kitchen, with its
chrome glitter and Hardware and Go Calendar and cute break­
fast nook (simulating that Coffee Shoppe where in their college
days Charlotte and Humbert used to coo together), she would sit,
robed in red, her elbow on the plastic topped table, her cheek
propped on her fist, and stare at me with intolerable tenderness
as I consumed my ham and eggs. Humbert’s face might twitch
with neuralgia, but in her eyes it vied in beauty and animation
with the sun and shadows of leaves rippling on the white refrigera­
tor. M y solemn exasperation was to her the silence o f l|we. M y
small income added to her even smaller one impressed her as a
brilliant fortune; not because the resulting sum now sufficed for
most middle-class needs, but because even my money shone in
her eyes witli the magic o f my manliness, and she saw our joint
account as one of those southern boulevards at midday that have
solid shade on one side and smooth sunshine on the other, all the
way to the end of a prospect, where pink mountains loom.
Into the fifty days of our cohabitation Charlotte crammed the
activities of as many years. The poor woman busied herself with
a number of things she had foregone long before or had never
been much interested in, as if (to prolong these Proustian intona­
tions) by my marrying the mother of the child I loved I had
enabled my wife to regain an abundance of youth by proxy.
With the zest of a banal young bride, she started to ‘glorify the
home’. Knowing as I did its every cranny by heart— since those
days when from my chair I mentally mapped out Lolita’s course
through the house— I had long entered into a sort of emotional
relationship with it, with its very ugliness and dirt, and now I
could almost feel the wretched thing cower in its reluctance to
endure the bath of ecru and ochre and putty-buff-and-snuff that
Charlotte planned to give it. She never got as far as that, thartlc
God, but she did use up a tremendous amount of energy in wash­

ing window shades, waxing the slats o f Venetian blinds, pur­
chasing new shades and new blinds, returning them to the store,
replacing them by others, and so on, in a constant chiaroscuro of
smiles and frowns, doubts and pouts. She dabbled in cretonnes
and chintzes; she changed the colours of the sofa— the sacred sofa
where a bubble of paradise had once burst in slow motion within
me. She arranged the furniture— and was pleased when she
found, in a household treatise, that ‘it is permissible to separate a
pair of sofa commodes and their companion lamps’ . W ith the
authoress of Your Home Is You, she developed a hatred for little
lean chairs and spindle tables. She believed that a room having a
generous expanse of glass, and lots of rich wood panelling was an
example of the masculine type of room, whereas the feminine type
was characterized by lighter-looking windows and frailer wood­
work. The novels I had found her reading when I moved in
were now replaced by illustrated catalogues and homemaking
guides. From a firm located at 4640 Roosevelt Blvd., Philadelphia,
she ordered for our double bed a ‘damask covered 312 coil
mattress’— although the old one seemed to me resilient and
durable enough for whatever it had to support.
A Midwesterner, as her late husband had also been, she had
lived in coy Ramsdale, the gem of an eastern state, not long
enough to know all the nice people. She knew slightly the jovial
dentist who lived in a kind of ramshackle wooden chateau behind
our lawn. She had met at a church tea the ‘snooty’ wife of the
local junk dealer who owned the ‘colonial5 white horror at the
comer of the avenue. Now and then she ‘visited with’ old Miss
Opposite; but the more patrician matrons among those she called
upon, or met at lawn functions, or had telephone chats with—
such dainty ladies as Mrs Glave, Mrs Sheridan, Mrs M cCrystal,
Mrs Knight and others— seldom seemed to call on my neglected
Charlotte. Indeed, the only couple with whom she had relations
of real cordiality, devoid of any arriere-pensee or practical foresight,
were the Farlows who had just come back from a business trip to
Chile in time to attend our wedding, with the Chatfields, McCoos
and a few others (but not Mrs Junk or the even prouder Mrs
Talbot). John Farlow was a middle-aged, quiet, quietly athletic,
quietly successful dealer in sporting goods, who had an office at
Parkington, forty miles away; it was he who got me the cartridges

78

for that Colt and showed me how to use it, during a walk in the
woods one Sunday; he was also what he called with a smile a
part-time lawyer and had handled some of Charlotte’s affairs.
Jean, his youngish wife (and first cousin), was a long-limbed girl
in harlequin glasses with two boxer dogs, two pointed breasts and
a big red mouth. She painted— landscapes and portraits— and
vividly do I remember praising, over cocktails, the picture she had
made of a niece of hers, little Rosaline Honeck, a rosy honey in
a Girl Scout uniform, beret of green worsted, belt of green web­
bing, charming shoulder-long curls— and John removed his pipe
and said it was a pity Dolly (my Dolita) and Rosaline were so
critical of each other at school, but he hoped, and we all hoped,
they would get on better when they returned from their res­
pective camps. We talked of the school. It had its drawbacks,
and it had its virtues. ‘O f course, too many of the tradespeople
here are Italians,’ said John, ‘but on the other hand we
are still spared— »— ’ ‘I wish,’ interrupted Jean with a laugh,
‘Dolly and Rosaline were spending the summer together.’ Sud­
denly I imagined Lo returning from camp— brown, warm,
drowsy, drugged— and was ready to weep with passion and
impatience.

r9
a few words more about Mrs Humbert while the going is good

(a bad accident is to happen quite soon). I had been always
aware of the possessive streak in her, but I never thought she
would be so crazily jealous of anything in my life that had not
been she. She showed a fierce insatiable curiosity for my past.
She desired me to resuscitate all my loves so that she might make
me insult them, and trample upon them, and revoke them
apostately and totally, thus destroying my past. She made me tell

her about my marriage to Valeria, who was of course a scream;
but I also had to invent, or to pad atrociously, a long series of
mistresses for Charlotte’s morbid delectation. To keep her happy,
I had to present her with an illustrated catalogue of them, all
nicely differentiated, according to the rules of those American
ads where schoolchildren are pictured in a subtle ratio of races,
with one— only one, but as cute as they make them— chocolatecoloured round-eyed little lad, almost in the very middle of the
front row. So I presented my women, and had them smile and
sway— the languorous blonde, the fiery brunette, the sensual
copperhead— as if on parade in a bordello. The more popular
and platitudinous I made them, the more Mrs Humbert was
pleased with the show.
Never in my life had I confessed so much or received so many
confessions. The sincerity and artlessness with which she discussed
what she called her ‘love-life’, from first necking to connubial
catch-as-oatch-can, were, ethically, in striking contrast with my
glib compositions, but technically the two sets were congeneric
since both were affected by the same stuff (soap operas, psycho­
analysis and cheap novelettes) upon which I drew for my charac­
ters and she for her mode of expression. I was considerably
amused by certain remarkable sexual habits that the good Harold
Haze had had according to Charlotte who thought m y mirth
improper; but otherwise her autobiography v/as as devoid of in­
terest as her autopsy would have been. I never saw a healthier
woman than she, despite thinning diets.
O f my Lolita she seldom spoke— moreseldom, in fact, than she
did of the blurred, blond male baby whose photograph to the
exclusion of all others adorned our bleak bedroom. In one of her
tasteless reveries, she predicted that the dead infant’s soul would
return to earth in the form of the child she would bear in her
present wedlock. And although I felt no special urge to supply
the Humbert line with a replica of Harold’s production (Lolita,
with an incestuous thrill, I had grown to regard as my child), it
occurred to me that a prolonged confinement, with a nice
Caesarean operation and other complications in a safe maternity
ward sometime next spring, would give me a chance to be alone
with my Lolita for weeks, perhaps— and gorge the limp nymphet
with sleeping pills.'

Oh, she simply hated her daughter! W hat I thought especially
vicious was that she had gone out of her way to answer with great
diligence the questionnaires in a fool’s book she had (A Guide to
Tour Child's Development), published in Chicago. The rigmarole
went year by year, and Mom was supposed to fill out a kind of
inventory at each of her child’s birthdays. On L o’s twelfth^
January i, 1947, Charlotte Haze, nee Becker, had underlined the
following epithets, ten out of forty, under ‘Your Child’s Per­
sonality’ : aggressive, boisterous, critical, distrustful, impatient,
irritable, inquisitive, listless, negativistic (underlined twice) and
obstinate. She had ignored the thirty remaining adjectives, among
which were cheerful, co-operative, energetic, and so forth. It was
really maddening. With a brutality that otherwise never appeared
in my loving wife’s mild nature, she attacked and routed such of
Lo’s little belongings that had wandered to various parts of the
house to freeze there like so many hypnotized bunnies. Little did
the good lady dream that one morning when an upset stomach
(the result of my trying to improve on her sauces) had prevented
me from accompanying her to church, I deceived her with one
of Lolita’s anklets. And then, her attitude towards my saporous
darling’s letters!
Dear Mummy and Hummy,
Hope you are fine. Thank you very much for the candy.
I [crossed out and rewritten again] I lost my new sweater in
the woods. It has been cold here for the last few days. I ’m
having a time. Love.
D olly
‘The dumb child,’ said Mrs Humbert, ‘has left out a word
before “ time” . That sweater was all-wool, and I wish you would
not send her candy without consulting me.’

20
there was a woodlake (Hourglass Lake— not as I had thought
it was spelled) a few miles from Ramsdale, and there was one
week of great heat at the end of July when we drove there daily.
I am now obliged to describe in some tedious detail our last swim
there together, one tropical Tuesday morning.
We had left the car in a parking area not far from the road and
were making our way down a path cut through the pine forest to
the lake, when Charlotte remarked that Jean Farlow, in quest of
rare light effects (Jean belonged to the old school of painting),
had seen Leslie taking a dip ‘in the ebony5 (as John had quipped)
at five o’clock in the morning last Sunday.
‘The water,5 I said, ‘must have been quite cold.5
‘That is not the point,5 said the logical doomed dear. ‘He is
subnormal, you see. And,5 she continued (in that carefully
phrased way of hers that was beginning to tell on my health),
‘I have a very definite feeling our Louise is in love with that
moron.5
Feeling. ‘We feel Dolly is not doing as well5, etc. (from an old
school report).
The Humberts walked on, sandalled and robed.
‘Do you know, Hum: I have one most ambitious dream,5 pro­
nounced Lady Hum, lowering her head— shy of that dream— and
communing with the tawny ground. ‘I would love to get hold of
a real trained servant maid like that German girl tire Talbots
spoke of; and have her live in the house.5
‘No room ,5 1 said.
‘Come,5 she said with her quizzical smile, ‘surely, chiri, you
underestimate the possibilities of the Humbert home. W e would
put her in Lo’s room. I intended to make a guestroom of that hole
anyway. It’s the coldest and meanest in the whole house.5
‘What are you talking about?5 I asked, the skin of my cheek­
bones tensing up (this I take the trouble to note only because my

82

daughter’s shin did the same when she felt that way: disbelief,
disgust, irritation).
‘Are you bothered by Romantic Associations?5 queried m y wife
— in allusion to her first surrender.
‘Hell no,’ said I. ‘I just wonder where will you put your
daughter when you get your guest or your m aid.’
‘Ah,’ said Mrs Humbert, dreaming, smiling, drawing out the
‘Ah’ simultaneously with the raise of one eyebrow and a soft
exhalation of breath. ‘Little Lo, I ’m afraid, does not enter the
picture at all, at all. Little Lo goes straight from camp to a good
boarding school with strict discipline and some sound religious
training. And then— Beardsley College. I have it all mapped out,
you need not worry.’
She went on to say that she, Mrs Humbert, would have to
overcome her habitual sloth and write to Miss Phalen’s sister
who taught at St Algebra. The dazzling lake emerged. I said I
had forgotten my sunglasses in the car and would catch up with
her. ................
I had always thought that wringing one’s hands was a fictional
gesture— the obscure outcome, perhaps, of some medieval ritual;
but as I took to the woods, for a spell of despair and desperate
meditation, this was the gesture (‘look, Lord, at these chains!’)
that would have come nearest to the mute expression of my
mood.
Had Charlotte been Valeria, I would have known how to
handle the situation; and ‘handle’ is the word I want. In the good
old days, by merely twisting fat Valechka’s brittle wrist (the one
she had fallen upon from a bicycle) I could make her change her
mind instantly; but anything o f the sort in regard to Charlotte
was unthinkable. Bland American Charlotte frightened me. M y
lighthearted dream of controlling her through her passion for me
was all wrong. I dared not do anything to spoil the image o f me
she had set up to adore. I had toadied to her when she was the
awesome duenna of my darling, and a grovelling something still
persisted in my attitude toward her. The only ace I held was her
ignorance of my monstrous love for her Lo. She had been annoyed
by Lo’s liking me; but my feelings she could not divine. T o
Valeria I might have said: ‘Look here, you fat fool, e’est moi qui
dicide what is good for Dolores Humbert.’ T o Charlotte, I could

83

not even say (with ingratiating calm ): ‘Excuse me, my dear, I dis­
agree. Let us give the child one more chance. Let me be her
private tutor for a year or so. You once told me yourself----- ’ In
fact, I could not say anything at all to Charlotte about the child
without giving myself away. Oh, you cannot imagine (as I had
never imagined) what these women o f principle are! Charlotte,
who did not notice the falsity of all the everyday conventions and
«|jles of behaviour, and foods, and books, and people she doted
lipqn, would distinguish at once a false intonation in anything I
might say with a view to keeping Lo near me. She was like a
musician who may be an odious vulgarian in ordinary life, devoid
of tact and taste; but who will hear a false note in music with
diabolical accuracy of judgment. To break Gharlotte’s will, I
would have to break her heart. I f I broke her heart, her image
of me would break too. I f I said: ‘Either I have my way with
Lolita, and you help me to keep the matter quiet, or we part at
once’, she would have turned as pale as a woman of clouded glass
and slowly replied: ‘All right, whatever you add or retract, this
is the end.5 And the end it would be.
Such, then, was the mess. I remember reaching the parking
area and pumping a handful of rust-tasting water, and drinking
it as avidly as if it could give me magic wisdom, youth, freedom, a
tiny concubine. For a while, purple-robed, lieei-dangling, I sat
on the edge of one of the rude tables, under the wooshing pines.
In the middle distance, two little maidens in shorts and halters
came out of a sun-dappled privy marked ‘Women5. Gum-chewing
Mabel (or Mabel’s understudy) laboriously, absent-mindedly,
straddled a bicycle, and Marion, shaking her hair because of the
flies, settled behind, legs wide apart; and, wobbling, they slowly,
absently, merged with the light and shade. Lolita! Father and
daughter melting into these woods! The natural solution was to
destroy Mrs Humbert. But how?
No man can bring about the perfect murder; chance, however,
can do it. There was the famous dispatch of a Mme Lacour in
Arles, southern France, at the close of last century. An un­
identified bearded six-footer, who, it was later conjectured, had
been the lady’s secret lover, walked up to her in a crowded street,
soon after her marriage to Colonel Lacour, and mortally stabbed
her in the back, three times, while the Colonel, a small bulldog
84

of a man, hung on to the murderer’s arm. By a miraculous and
beautiful coincidence, right at the moment when the operator
was in the act of loosening the angry little husband’s jaws (while
several onlookers were closing in upon the group), a cranky
Italian in the house nearest to the scene set off by sheer accident
some kind of explosive he was tinkering with, and immediately
the street was turned into a pandemonium of smoke, falling
bricks and running people. The explosion hurt no one (except
that it knocked out game Colonel Lacour); but the lady’s venge­
ful lover ran when the others ran— and lived happily ever after.
Now look what happens when the operator himself plans a
perfect removal.
I walked down to Hourglass Lake. The spot from which w e
and a few other ‘nice’ couples (the Farlows, the Chatfields)
bathed was a kind of small cove; my Charlotte liked it because
it was almost ‘a private beach’. The main bathing facilities (or
‘drowning facilities’ as the Ramsdale Journal had had occasion to
say) were in the left (eastern) part of the hourglass, and could
not be seen from our covelet. T o our right, the pines soon gave
way to a curve of marshland which turned again into forest on
the opposite side.
I sat down beside my wife so noiselessly that she started.
‘Shall we go in?’ she asked.
‘We shall in a minute. Let me follow a train of thought.5
I thought. More than a minute passed.
‘All right. Come on.5
‘Was I on that train?’
‘You certainly were.’
‘I hope so,5 said Charlotte entering the water. It soon reached
the gooseflesh of her thick thighs; and then, joining her out­
stretched hands, shutting her mouth tight, very plain-faced in her
black rubber headgear, Charlotte flung herself forward with a
great splash.
Slowly we swam out into the shimmer of the lake.
On the opposite bank, at least a thousand paces away (if one
could walk across water), I could make out the tiny figures of
two men working .like beavers on their stretch of shore. I knew
exactly who they were: a retired policeman o f Polish descent and
the retired plumber who owned most of the timber on that side

of the lake. And I also knew they were engaged in building, just
for the dismal fun of the thing, a wharf. The knocks that reached
us seemed so much bigger than what could be distinguished of
those dwarfs’ arms and tools; indeed, one suspected the director
of those acrosonic effects to have been at odds with the puppetmaster, especially since the hefty crack of each diminutive blow
lagged behind its visual version.
‘ The short white-sand strip of ‘our’ beach— from which by
now we had gone a little way to reach deep water— was empty
on weekday mornings. There was nobody around except those
two tiny very busy figures on the opposite side, and a dark-red
private plane that droned overhead, and then disappeared in the
blue. The setting was really perfect for a brisk bubbling murder,
and here was the subtle point: the man of law and the man of
water were just near enough to witness an accident and just far
enough not to observe a crime. They were near enough to hear a
distracted bather thrashing about and bellowing for somebody to
come and help him save his drowning wife; and they were too far
to distinguish (if they happened to look too soon) that the any­
thing but distracted swimmer was finishing to tread his wife
underfoot. I was not yet at that stage; I merely want to convey
the ease of the fact, the nicety of the setting! So there was Char­
lotte swimming on with dutiful awkwardness (she was a very
mediocre mermaid), but not without a certain solemn pleasure
(for was not her merman by her side?); and as I watched, with
the stark lucidity of a future recollection (you know— trying to
see things as you will remember having seen them), the glossy
whiteness of her wet face so little tanned despite all her end eavours,
and her pale lips, and her naked convex forehead, and the tight
black cap, and the plump wet neck, I knew that all I had to do
was to drop back, take a deep breath, then grab her by the ankle
and rapidly dive with my captive corpse. I say corpse because
surprise, panic and inexperience would cause her to inhale at once
a lethal gallon of lake, while I would be able to hold on for at least
a full minute, open-eyed under water. The fatal gesture passed
like the tail of a falling star across the blackness of the contem­
plated crime. It was like some dreadful silent ballet, the male
dancer holding the ballerina by her foot and streaking down
through watery twilight. I might come up for a mouthful o f air
8 6

while still holding her down, and then would dive again as many
times as would be necessary, and only when the curtain came
down on her for good, would I permit myself to yell for help.
And when some twenty minutes later the two puppets steadily
growing arrived in a rowboat, one half newly painted, poor Mrs
Humbert Humbert, the victim of cramp or coronary occlusion,
or both, would be standing on her head in the inky ooze some
thirty feet below the smiling surface of Hourglass Lake.
Simple, was it not? But what d’ye know, folks— I just could
not make myself do it!
She swam beside me, a trustful and clumsy seal, and all the
logic of passion screamed in my ear: Now is the time! And, folks,
I just couldn’t! In silence I turned shoreward and gravely, duti­
fully, she also turned, and still hell screamed its counsel, and still
I could not make myself drown the poor, slippery, big-bodied
creature. The scream grew more and more remote as I realized
the melancholy fact that neither tomorrow, nor Friday, nor any
other day or night, could I make myself put her to death. Oh, I
could visualize myself slapping Valeria’s breasts out of alignment,
or otherwise hurting her— and I could see myself, no less clearly,
shooting her lover in the underbelly and making him say ‘akh!’
and sit down. But I could not kill Charlotte— especially when
things were on the whole not quite as hopeless, perhaps, as they
seemed at first wince on that miserable morning. Were I to catch
her by her strong lucking foot; were I to see her amazed look,
hear her awful voice; were I still to go through with the ordeal,
her ghost would haunt me all my life. Perhaps if the year were
I447 instead of 1947 I might have hoodwinked my gentle nature
by administering her some classical poison from a hollow agate,
some tender philtre of death. But in our middle-class nosy era it
would not have come off the way it used to in the brocaded
palaces of the past. Nowadays you have to be a scientist if you
want to be a killer. No, no, I was neither. Ladies and gentlemen
of the jury, the majority of sex offenders that hanker for some
throbbing, sweet-moaning, physical but not necessarily coital,
relation with a girl-child, are innocuous, inadequate, passive,
timid strangers who merely ask the community to allow them to
pursue their practically harmless, so-called aberrant behaviour,
their little hot wet private acts of sexual deviation without the

police and society cracking down upon them. We are not sex
fiends! We do not rape as good soldiers do. We are unhappy,
mild, dog-eyed gentlemen, sufficiently well integrated to control
our urge in the presence of adults, but ready to give years and
years of life for one chance to touch a nymphet. Emphatically, no
killers are we. Poets never kill. Oh, my poor Charlotte, do not
hate me in your eternal heaven among an eternal alchemy of
asphalt and rubber and metal and stone— but thank God, not
water, not water!
Nonetheless it was a very close shave, speaking quite objectively.
And now comes the point of my perfect-crime parable.
We sat down on our towels in the thirsty sun. She looked
around, loosened her bra, and turned over on her stomach to
give her back a chance to be feasted upon. She said she loved me.
She sighed deeply. She extended one arm and groped in the
pocket of her robe for her cigarettes. She sat up and smoked. She
examined her right shoulder. She kissed me heavily with open
smoky mouth. Suddenly, down the sand bank behind us, from
under the bushes and pines, a stone rolled, then another.
‘Those disgusting prying kids,3 said Charlotte, holding up her
big bra to her breast and turning prone again. ‘I shall have to
speak about that to Peter Krestovski.3
From the debouchment of the trail came a rustle, a footfall,
and Jean Farlow marched down with her easel and things.
‘You scared us,’ said Charlotte.
Jean said she had been up there, in a place of green conceal­
ment, spying on nature (spies are generally shot), trying to finish
a lakescape, but it was no good, she had no talent whatever
(which was quite true)— ‘And have you ever tried painting,
Humbert?3 Charlotte, who was a little jealous of Jean, wanted to
know if John was coming.
He was. Fie was coming home for lunch today. He had dropped
her on the way to Parkington and should be picking her up any
time now. It was a grand morning. She always felt a traitor to
Cavall and Melampus for leaving them roped on such gorgeous
days. She sat down on the white sand between Charlotte and
me. She wore shorts. Her long brown legs were about as attractive
to me as those of a chestnut mare. She showed her gums when she
smiled.

‘X almost put both of you into my lake,’ she said. 'I even
noticed something you overlooked. You [addressing Humbert]
had your wrist watch on in, yes, sir, you had.’
‘Waterproof,’ said Charlotte softly, making a fish mouth.
Jean took my wrist upon her knee and examined Charlotte’s
gift, then put back Humbert’s hand on the sand, palm up.
Y o u could see anything that way,’ remarked Charlotte
coquettishly.
Jean sighed. eI once saw,’ she said, ‘two children, male and
female, at sunset, right here, making love. Their shadows were
giants. And I told you about M r Tomson at daybreak. Next time
I expect to see fat old Ivor in the ivory. He is really a freak, that
man. Last time he told me a completely indecent story about his
nephew. It appears----- ’
‘Hullo there,’ said John’s voice.

2 1

my habit of being silent when displeased, or, more exactly, the
cold and scaly quality of my displeased silence, used to frighten
Valeria out of her wits. She used to whimper and wail, saying,
‘Ce qui me rendfolle, c'est que je ne sais d quoi tu penses quand tu es
comme fad I tried being silent with Charlotte— and she just
chirped on, or chucked my silence under the chin. An astonishing
woman! I would retire to my former room, now a regular ‘studio’ ,
mumbling I had after all a learned opus to write, and cheerfully
Charlotte went on beautifying the home, warbling on the tele­
phone and writing letters. From my window, through the lac­
quered shiver of poplar leaves, I could see her crossing the street
and contentedly mailing her letter to Miss Phalen’s sister.
The week of scattered showers and shadows whieh elapsed after

89

our last visit to the motionless sands of Hourglass Lake was one
of the gloomiest I can recall. Then came two or three dim rays
of hope— before the ultimate sunburst.
It occurred to me that I had a fine brain in beautiful working
order and that I might as well use it. I f I dared not meddle with
my wife’s plans for her daughter (getting warmer and browner
every day in the fair weather of hopeless distance), I could surely
devise some general means to assert myself in a general way that
might be later directed toward a particular occasion. One even­
ing, Charlotte herself provided me with an opening.
T have a surprise for you,’ she said looking at me with fond
eves over a spoonful of soup. ‘In the fall we two are going to
England.’
I swallowed my spoonful, wiped my lips with pink paper (Oh,
the cool rich linens of Mirana Hotel!) and said:
CI have also a surprise for you, my dear. We two are not going
to England.’
‘Why, what’s the matter?’ she said, looking— with more sur­
prise than I had counted upon— at my hands (I was involuntarily
folding and tearing and crushing and tearing again the innocent
pink napkin). M y smiling face set her somewhat at ease, however.
‘The matter is quite simple,’ I replied. ‘Even in the most
harmonious of households, as ours is, not all decisions are taken
by the female partner. There are certain things that the husband
is there to decide. I can well imagine the thrill that you, a healthy
American gal, must experience at crossing the Atlantic on the
same ocean liner with Lady Bumble— or Sam Bumble, the
Frozen Meat King, or a Hollywood harlot. And I doubt not that
you and I would make a pretty ad for the Travelling Agency
when portrayed looking— you, frankly starry-eyed, I, controlling
my envious admiration— at the Palace Sentries, or Scarlet Guards,
or Beaver Eaters, or whatever they are called. But I happen to be
allergic to Europe, including merry old England. As you well
know, I have nothing but very sad associations with the O ld and
rotting World. No coloured ads in your magazines will change
the situation.’
‘M y darling,’ said Charlotte. ‘I really----- ’
‘No, wait a minute. The present matter is only incidental. I am
concerned with a general trend. When you wanted me to spend

my afternoons sunbathing on the Lake instead of doing m y
work, I gladly gave in and became a bronzed glamour boy for
your sake, instead of remaining a scholar and, well, an educator.
When you lead me to bridge and bourbon with the charming
Farlows, I meekly follow. No, please, wait. When you decorate
your home, I do not interfere with your schemes. When you
decide— when you decide all kinds of matters, I may be in com­
plete, or in partial, let us say, disagreement— but I say nothing.
I ignore the particular. I cannot ignore the general. I love being
bossed by you, but every game has its rules. I am not cross. I am
not cross at all. Don’t do that. But I am one half of this household,
and have a small but distinct voice.’
She had come to my side and had fallen on her knees and was
slowly, but very vehemently, shaking her head and clawing at m y
trousers. She said she had never realized. She said I was her ruler
and her god. She said Louise had gone, and let us make love
right away. She said I must forgive her or she would die.
This little incident filled me with considerable elation. I told
her quietly that it was a matter not of asking forgiveness, but o f
changing one’s ways; and I resolved to press my advantage and
spend a good deal of time, aloof and moody, working at my book
— or at least pretending to work.
The ‘studio bed’ in my former room had long been converted
into the sofa it had always been at heart, and Charlotte had
warned me since the very beginning of our cohabitation that
gradually the room would be turned into a regular ‘writer’s den’ .
A couple of days after the British Incident, I was sitting in a new
and very comfortable easy chair, with a large volume in my lap,
when Charlotte rapped with her ring finger and sauntered in.
How different were her movements from those of my Lolita,
when she used to visit me in her dear dirty blue jeans, smelling o f
orchards in nymphetland; awkward and fey, and dimly depraved,
the lower buttons of her shirt unfastened. Let me tell you, how­
ever, something. Behind the brashness o f little Haze, and the
poise of big Haze, a trickle of shy life ran that tasted the same,
that murmured the same. A great French doctor once told m y
father that in near relatives the faintest gastric gurgle has the
same ‘voice’.
So Charlotte sauntered in. She felt all was not well between us.

I had pretended to fall asleep the night before, and the night
before that, as soon as we had gone to bed, and risen at dawn.
Tenderly, she inquired if she were not ‘interrupting*.
‘Not at the moment,’ I said, turning volume G o f the Girls’
Encyclopaedia around to examine a picture printed ‘bottom-edge’
as printers say.
Charlotte went up to a little table of imitation mahogany with
a drawer. She put her hand upon it. The little table was ugly, no
doubt, but it had done nothing to her.
‘I have always wanted to ask you,’ she said (business-like, not
coquettish), ‘why is this thing locked up? Do you want it in this
room? It’s so abominably uncouth.’
‘Leave it alone,’ I said. I was camping in Scandinavia.
‘Is there a key?’
‘Hidden.’
‘Oh, Hum . . .*
‘Locked up love letters.’
She gave me one of those wounded-doe looks that irritated me
so much, and then, not quite knowing if I was serious, or how to
keep up the conversation, stood for several slow pages (Campus,
Canada, Candid Camera, Candy) peering at the window-pane
rather than through it, drumming upon it with sharp almondand-rose fingernails.
Presently (at Canoeing or Canvasback) she strolled up to my
chair and sank down, tweedily, weightily, on its arm, inundating
me with the perfume my first wife had used. ‘Would his lordship
like to spend the fall here?’ she asked, pointing with her little
finger at an autumn view in a conservative Eastern State. ‘Why?’
(very distinctly and slowly). She shrugged. (Probably Harold used
to take a vacation at that time. Open season. Conditional reflex
on her part.)
‘I think I know where that is,’ she said, still pointing. ‘There is
a hotel I remember, Enchanted Hunters, quaint, isn’t it? And the
food is a dream. And nobody bothers anybody.’
She rubbed her cheek against my temple. Valeria soon got over
that,
‘Is there anything special you would like for dinner, dear? John
and Jean will drop in later.’
I answered with a grunt. She kissed me on my underlip, and,

brightly saying she would bake a cake (a tradition subsisted from
my lodging days that I adored her cakes), left me to my idle­
ness.
Carefully putting down the open book where she had sat (it
attempted to send forth a rotation of waves, but an inserted pencil
stopped the pages), I checked the hiding place of the key: rather
self-consciously it lay under the old expensive safety razor I had
used before she bought me a much better and cheaper one. Was
it the perfect hiding place— there, under that razor, in the groove
of its velvet-lined case? The case lay in a small trunk where I kept
various business papers. Could I improve upon this? Remarkable
how difficult it is to conceal things— especially when one’s wife
keeps monkeying with the furniture.

22
i t h i n k i t was exactly a week after our last swim that the noon

mail brought a reply from the second Miss Phalen. The lady wrote
she had just returned to St Algebra from her sister’s funeral.
‘Euphemia had never been the same after breaking that hip.’ As
to the matter of Mrs Humbert’s daughter, she wished to report
that it was too late to enrol her this year; but that she, the sur­
viving Phalen, was practically certain that if M r and Mrs
Humbert brought Dolores over in January, her admittance
might be arranged.
Next day, after lunch, I went to see £our’ doctor, a friendly
fellow whose perfect bedside manner and complete reliance on a
few patented drugs adequately masked his ignorance of, and in­
difference to, medical science. The fact that L a would have to
come back to Ramsdale was a treasure of anticipation. For this
event I wanted to be fully prepared. I had in fact begun my cam­
paign earlier, before Charlotte made that cruel decision of hers.
I had to be sure when my lovely child arrived, that very night,

and then night after night, until St Algebra took her away from
me, 1 would possess the means of putting two creatures to sleep so
thoroughly that neither sound nor touch should rouse them.
Throughout most of July I had been experimenting with various
sleeping powders, trying them out on Charlotte, a great taker of
pills. The last dose I had given her (she thought it was a tablet of
mild bromides— to anoint her nerves) had knocked her out for
four solid hours. I had put the radio at full blast. I had blazed in
her face an olisbos-like flashlight, I had pushed her, pinched her,
prodded her— and nothing had disturbed the rhythm o f her calm
and powerful breathing. However, when I had done such a simple
thing as kiss her, she had awakened at once, as fresh and strong
as an octopus (I barely escaped). This would not do, I thought;
had to get something still safer. A t first, Dr Byron did not seem
to believe me when I said his last prescription was no match for
my insomnia. He suggested I try again, and for a moment diverted
my attention by showing me photographs of his family. He had a
fascinating child of Dolly’s age; but I saw through his tricks and
insisted he prescribe the mightiest pill extant. He suggested I play
golf, but finally agreed to give me something that, he said, ‘would
really work’ ; and going to a cabinet, he produced a vial of violetblue capsules banded with dark purple at one end, which, he said,
had just been placed on the market and were intended not for
neurotics whom a draught of water could calm if properly ad­
ministered, but only for great sleepless artists who had to die for
a few hours in order to live for centuries. I love to fool doctors,
and though inwardly rejoicing, pocketed the pills with a sceptical
shrug. Incidentally, I had had to be careful with him. Once, in
another connection, a stupid lapse on my part made me mention
my last sanatorium, and I thought I saw the tips of his ears
twitch. Being not at all keen for Charlotte or anybody else to
know that period of my past, I had hastily explained that I had
once done some research among the insane for a novel. But no
matter; the old rogue certainly had a sweet girleen.
I left in great spirits. Steering my wife’s car with one finger, I
contentedly rolled homeward. Ramsdale had, after all, lots of
charm. The cicadas whirred; the avenue had been freshly
watered. Smoothly, almost silkily, I turned down into our steep
little street. Everything was somehow so right that day. So blue

and green. I knew the sun shone because my ignition key was
reflected in the windshield; and I knew it was exactly half-past
three because the nurse who came to massage Miss Opposite
every afternoon was tripping down the narrow sidewalk in her
white stockings and shoes. As usual, Junk’s hysterical setter
attacked me as I rolled downhill, and as usual, the local paper
was lying on the porch where it had just been hurled by Kenny.
The day before I had ended the regime o f aloofness I had
imposed upon myself, and now uttered a cheerful homecoming
call as I opened the door of the living room. W ith her creamwhite nape and bronze bun to me, wearing the yellow blouse and
maroon slacks she had on when I first met her, Charlotte sat at
the corner bureau writing a letter. M y hand still on the door­
knob, I repeated my hearty cry. Her writing hand stopped. She
sat still for a moment; then she slowly turned in her chair and
rested her elbow on its curved back. Her face, disfigured by her
emotion, was not a pretty sight as she stared at my legs and
said:
‘The Haze woman, the big bitch, the old cat, the obnoxious
mamma, the— the old stupid Haze is no longer your dupe. She
has— she has . . .’
My fair accuser stopped, swallowing her venom and her tears.
Whatever Humbert Humbert said— or attempted to say— is in­
essential. She went on:
‘You’re a monster. You’re a detestable, abominable, criminal
fraud. If you come near— I’ll scream out the window. Get back!*
Again, whatever H.H. murmured may be omitted, I think.
‘I am leaving tonight. This is ail yours. O nly you’ll never,
never see that miserable brat again. Get out of this room.’
Reader, I did. I went up to the ex-semi-studio. Arms akimbo,
I stood for a moment quite still and self-composed, surveying
from the threshold the raped little table with its open drawer, a
key hanging from the lock, four other household keys on the
table top. I walked across the landing into the Humberts’ bed­
room, and calmly removed my diary from under her pillow into
my pocket. Then I started to walk downstairs, but stopped half­
way: she was talking on the telephone which happened to be
plugged just outside the door of the living room. I wanted to hear
what she was saying: she cancelled an order for something; or

other, and returned to the parlour. I rearranged m y respiration
and went through the hallway to the kitchen. There, I opened a
bottle of Scotch. She could never resist Scotch. Then I walked
into the dining room and from there, through the halfnopen door,
contemplated Charlotte’s broad back.
'*
‘You are ruining my life and yours,’ I said quietly. ‘Let us be
civilized people. It is all your hallucination. You are crazy,
Charlotte. The notes you found were fragments of a novel. Your
name and hers were put in by mere chance. Just because they
came handy. Think it over. I shall bring you a drink.5
She neither answered nor turned, but went on writing in a
scorching scrawl whatever she was writing. A third letter, pre­
sumably (two in stamped envelopes were already laid out on the
desk). I went back to the kitchen.
I set out two glasses (to St Algebra? to Lo?) and opened the
refrigerator. It roared at me viciously while I removed the ice
from its heart. Rewrite. Let her read it again. She will not recall
details. Change, forge. Write a fragment and show it to her or
leave it lying around. W hy do faucets sometimes whine so horribly?
A horrible situation, really. The little pillow-shaped blocks of
ice— pillows for polar teddy bear, Lo— emitted rasping, crackling,
tortured sounds as the warm water loosened them in their cells.
I bumped down the glasses side by side. I poured in the whisky
and a dram of soda. She had tabooed my pin. Bark and bang
went the icebox. Carrying the glasses, I walked through the
dining room and spoke through the parlour door which was a
fraction ajar, not quite space enough for my elbow.
‘I have made you a drink,’ I said.
She did not answer, the mad bitch, and I placed the glasses
on the sideboard near the telephone, which had started to
ring.
‘Leslie speaking. Leslie Tomson,’ said Leslie Tomson who
favoured a dip at dawn. ‘Mrs Humbert, sir, has been run over
and you’d better come quick.’
I answered, perhaps a bit testily, that my wife was safe and
sound, and still holding the receiver, I pushed open the door and
said:
‘There’s this man saying you’ve been killed, Charlotte.’
But there was no Charlotte in the living room.

96

i rushed OUT. The far side of our steep little street presented a
peculiar sight. A big black glossy Packard had climbed Miss
Opposite’s sloping lawn at an angle from the sidewalk (where a
tartan laprobe had dropped in a heap), and stood there, shining
in the sun, its doors open like wings, its front wheels deep in
evergreen shrubbery. To the anatomical right of this car, on the
trim turf of the lawn-slope, an old gentleman with a white
moustache, well-dressed— double-breasted grey suit, polka-dotted
bow-tie— lay supine, his long legs together, like a death-size wax
figure. I have to put the impact of an instantaneous vision into a
sequence of words; their physical accumulation in the page im­
pairs the actual flash, the sharp unity of impression: Rug-heap,
car, old-man doll, Miss O .’s nurse running with a rustle, a halfempty tumber in her hand, back to the screened porch— where
the propped-up, imprisoned, decrepit lady herself may be
imagined screeching, but not loud enough to drown the rhyth­
mical yaps of the Junk setter walking from group to group—
from a bunch of neighbours already collected on the sidewalk,
near the bit of checked stuff, and back to the car which he had
finally run to earth, and then to another group on the lawn, con­
sisting of Leslie, two policemen and a sturdy man with tortoise­
shell glasses. At this point, I should explain that the prompt
appearance of the patrolmen, hardly more than a minute after
the accident, was due to their having been ticketing the illegally
parked cars in a cross lane two blocks down the grade; that the
fellow with the glasses was Frederick Beale, Jr., driver of the
Packard; that his 79-year"°ld father, whom the nurse had just
watered on the green bank where he lay— a banked banker so to
speak— was not in a dead faint, but was comfortably and
methodically recovering from a mild heart attack or its possi­
bility; and, finally, that the laprobe on the sidewalk (where she
had so often pointed out to me with disapproval the crooked

green cracks) concealed the mangled remains of Charlotte Hum­
bert who had been knocked down and dragged several feet by
the Beale car as she was hurrying across the street to drop three
letters in the mailbox, at the corner of Miss Opposite’s lawn.
These were picked up and handed to me by a pretty child in a
dirty pink frock, and I got rid of them by clawing them to
fragments in my trouser pocket.
Three doctors and the Farlows presently arrived on the scene
and took over. The widower, a man of exceptional self-control,
neither wept nor raved. He staggered a bit, that he did; but he
opened his mouth only to impart such information or issue such
directions as were strictly necessary in connection with the
identification, examination and disposal of a dead woman, the
top of her head a porridge of bone, brains, bronze hair and blood.
The sun was still a blinding red when he was put to bed in
Dolly’s room by his two friends, gentle John and dewy-eyed Jean;
who, to be near, retired to the Humberts’ bedroom for the night;
which, for all I know, they may not have spent as innocently as
the solemnity of the occasion required.
I have no reason to dwell, in this very special memoir, on the
pre-funeral formalities that had to be attended to, or on the
funeral itself, which was as quiet as the marriage had been. But a
few incidents pertaining to those four or five days after Charlotte’s
simple death have to be noted.
M y first night of widowhood I was so drunk that I slept as
soundly as the child who had slept in that bed. Next morning I
hastened to inspect the fragments of letters in my pocket. They
had got too thoroughly mixed up to be sorted into three complete
sets. I assumed that *. . . and you had better find it because I
cannot buy . . .’ came from a letter to Lo; and other fragments
seemed to point to Charlotte’s intention of fleeing with Lo to
Parkington, or even back to Pisky, lest the vulture snatch her
precious lamb. Other tatters and shreds (never had I thought I
had such strong talons) obviously referred to an application not
to St A, but to another boarding school which was said to be so
harsh and grey, and gaunt in its methods (although supplying
croquet under the elms) as to have earned the nickname of
‘Reformatory for Young Ladies’. Finally, the third epistle was
obviously addressed to me. I made out such items as ‘. . . after a

98

year of separation we may
oh, my dearest, oh m y
. worse than if it had been a woman you kept . . .’ c. . . or,
maybe, I shall die . .
But on the whole m y gleanings made
little sense; the various fragments of these three hasty missives
were as jumbled in the palms of my hands as their elements had
been in poor Charlotte’s head.
That day John had to see a customer, and Jean had to feed her
dogs, and so I was to be deprived temporarily o f my friends’
company. The dear people were afraid I might commit suicide if
left alone, and since no other friends were available (Miss O ppo­
site was incommunicado, the McCoos were busy building a new
house miles away, and the Chatfields had been recently called to
Maine by some family trouble of their own), Leslie and Louise
were commissioned to keep me company under the pretence o f
helping me to sort out and pack a multitude of orphaned things.
In a moment of superb inspiration I showed the kind and credu­
lous Farlows (we were waiting for Leslie to come for his paid
tryst with Louise) a little photograph of Charlotte I had found
among her affairs. From a boulder she smiled through blown hair.
It had been taken in April 1934, a memorable spring. W hile on
a business visit to the States, I had had occasion to spend several
months in Pisky. W e met— and had a mad love affair. I was
married, alas, and she was engaged to Haze, but after I returned
to Europe, we corresponded through a friend, now dead. Jean
whispered she had heard some rumours and looked at the snap­
shot, and, still looking, handed it to John, and John removed his
pipe and looked at lovely and fast Charlotte Becker, and handed
it back to me. Then they left for a few hours. H appy Louise was
gurgling and scolding her swain in the basement.
Hardly had the Farlows gone than a blue-chinned cleric called
— and I tried to make the interview as brief as was consistent with
neither hurting his feelings nor arousing his doubts. Yes, I would'
devote all my life to the child’s welfare. Here, incidentally, was a
little cross that Charlotte Becker had given me when we were
both young. I had a female cousin, a respectable spinster in New
York. There we would find a good private school for Dolly. Oh,
what a crafty Humbert!
For the benefit of Leslie and Louise who might (and did)
report it to John and Jean I made a tremendously loud and

beautiful enacted long-distance call and simulated a conversation
with Shirley Holmes. When John and Jean returned, I completely
took them in by telling them, in a deliberately wild and confused
mutter, that Lo had gone with the intermediate group on a fiveday hike and could not be reached.
‘Good Lord,’ said Jean, ‘what shall we do?’
John said it was perfectly simple— he would get the Climax
police to find the hikers— it would not take them an hour. In fact,
he knew the country and----‘Look,5 he continued, ‘why don’t I drive there right now, and
you may sleep with Jean’— (he did not really add that but Jean
supported his offer so passionately that it might be implied).
I broke down. I pleaded with John to let things remain the
way they were. I said I could not bear to have the child all
around me, sobbing, clinging to me, she was so high-strung, the
experience might react on her future, psychiatrists have analysed
such cases. There was a sudden pause.
‘Well, you are the doctor,’ said John a little bluntly. ‘But after
all I was Charlotte’s friend and adviser. One would like to know
what you are going to do about the child anyway.’
‘John,’ cried Jean, ‘she is his child, not Harold Haze’s. Don’t
you understand? Humbert is Dolly’s real father.’
‘I see,’ said John. T am sorry. Yes, I see. I did not realize
that. It simplifies matters, of course. And whatever you feel is
righ t’
The distraught father went on to say he would go and fetch
his delicate daughter immediately after the funeral, and would
do his best to give her a good time in totally different surround­
ings, perhaps a trip to New Mexico or California— granted, of
course, he lived.
So artistically did I impersonate the calm of ultimate despair,
the hush before some crazy outburst, that the perfect Farlows
removed me to their house. They had a good cellar, as cellars go
in this country; and that was helpful, for I feared insomnia and
a ghost.
Now I must explain my reasons for keeping Dolores away.
Naturally, at first, when Charlotte had just been eliminated and
I re-entered the house a free father, and gulped down the two
whisky-and-sodas I had prepared, and topped them with a pint

or two of my ‘pin’, and went to the bathroom to get away from
neighbours and friends, there was but one thing in my mind and
pulse— namely, the awareness that a few hours hence, warm,
brown-haired, and mine, mine, mine, Lolita would be in my
arms, shedding tears that I would kiss away faster than they could
well. But as I stood wide-eyed and flushed before the mirror, John
Farlow tenderly tapped to inquire if I was okay— and I im ­
mediately realized it would be madness on my part to have her
in the house with all those busybodies milling around and
scheming to take her away from me. Indeed, unpredictable Lo
herself might— who knows?— show some foolish distrust o f me, a
sudden repugnance, vague fear and the like— and gone would be
the magic prize at the very instant of triumph.
Speaking of busybodies, I had another visitor— friend Beale,
the fellow who eliminated my wife. Stodgy and solemn, looking
like a kind of assistant executioner, with his bulldog jowls, small
black eyes, thickly rimmed glasses and conspicuous nostrils, he
was ushered in by John who then left us, closing the door upon
us, with the utmost tact. Suavely saying he had twins in my step­
daughter’s class, my grotesque visitor unrolled a large diagram
he had made of the accident. It was, as my stepdaughter would
have put it, ‘a beaut’, with all kinds of impressive arrows and
dotted lines in varicoloured inks. Mrs H. H .’s trajectory was
illustrated at several points by a series of those little outline figures
— doll-like wee career girl or W AG — used in statistics as visual
aids. Very clearly and conclusively, this route came into contact
with a boldly traced sinuous line representing two consecutive
swerves— one which the Beale car made to avoid the Junk dog
(dog not shown), and the second, a kind o f exaggerated continua­
tion of the first, meant to avert the tragedy. A very black cross
indicated the spot where the trim little outline figure had at last
come to rest on the sidewalk. I looked for some similar mark to
denote the place on the embankment where m y visitor’s huge wax
father had reclined, but there was none. That gentleman, how­
ever, had signed the document as a witness underneath the name
of Leslie Tomson, Miss Opposite and a few other people.
With his hummingbird pencil deftly and delicately flying from
one point to another, Frederick demonstrated his absolute in ­
nocence and the recklessness of m y wife: while he was in the act

of avoiding the dog, she had slipped on the freshly watered asphalt
and plunged forward whereas she should have flung herself not
forward but backward (Fred showed how by a jerk of his padded
shoulder). I said it was certainly not his fault, and the inquest
upheld my view.
Breathing violently through jet-black tense nostrils, he shook
his head and my hand; then, with an air of perfect savoir vivre and
gentlemanly generosity, he offered to pay the funeral-home ex­
penses. He expected me to refuse his offer. With a drunken sob of
gratitude I accepted it. This took him aback. Slowly, incredu­
lously, he repeated what he had said. I thanked him again, even
more profusely than before.
In result of that weird interview, the numbness of my soul was
for a moment resolved. And no wonder! I had actually seen the
agent of fate. I had palpated the very flesh of fate— and its padded
shoulder. A brilliant and monstrous mutation had suddenly taken
place, and here was the instrument. Within the intricacies of the
pattern (hurrying housewife, slippery pavement, a pest of a dog,
steep grade, big car, baboon at its wheel), I could dimly distin­
guish my own vile contribution. Had I not been such a fool— or
such an intuitive genius— to preserve that journal, fluids pro­
duced by vindictive anger and hot shame would not have blinded
Charlotte in her dash to the mailbox. But even had they blinded
her, still nothing might have happened, had not precise fate, that
synchronizing phantom, mixed within its alembic the car and the
dog and the sun and the shade and the wet and the weak and the
strong and the stone. Adieu, Marlene! Fat fate’s formal hand­
shake (as reproduced by Beale before leaving the room) brought
me out of my torpor; and I wept, Ladies and gentlemen of the
jury— I wept.

103

the elms and t h e poplars were turning their ruffled backs to
a sudden onslaught of wind, and a black thunderhead loomed
above Ramsdale’s white church tower when I looked around me
for the last time. For unknown adventures I was leaving the livid
house where I had rented a room only ten weeks before. The
shades— thrifty, practical bamboo shades— were already down.
On porches or in the house their rich textures lend modern
drama. The house of heaven must seem pretty bare after that.
A raindrop fell on my knuckles. I went back into the house for
something or other while John was putting my bags into the car,
and then a funny thing happened. I do not know if in these tragic
notes I have sufficiently stressed the peculiar ‘sending’ effect that
the writer’s good looks— pseudo-Celtic, attractively simian, boy­
ishly manly— had on women o f every age and environment. O f
course, such announcements made in the first person may sound
ridiculous. But every once in a while I have to remind the reader
of my appearance much as a professional novelist, who has given
a character of his some mannerism or a dog, has to go on pro­
ducing that dog or that mannerism every time the character crops
up in the course of the book. There may be more to it in the
present case. M y gloomy good looks should be kept in the mind’s
eye if my story is to be properly understood. Pubescent Lo
swooned to Humbert’s charm as she did to hiccuppy music; adult
Lotte loved me with a mature, possessive passion that I now
deplore and respect more than I care to say. Jean Farlow, who
was thirty-one and absolutely neurotic, had also apparently de­
veloped a strong liking for me. She was handsome in a carvedIndian sort of way, with a burnt sienna complexion. Her lips
were like large crimson polyps, and when she emitted her special
barking laugh, she showed large dull teeth and pale gums.
She was very tall, wore either slacks with sandals or billowing
skirts with ballet slippers, drank any strong liquor in any amount,

had had two miscarriages, wrote stories about animals, painted,
as the reader knows, lakescapes, was already nursing the cancer
that was to kill her at thirty-three, and was hopelessly unattrac­
tive to me. Judge then of my alarm when a few seconds before
I left (she and I stood in the hallway) Jean, with her always
trembling fingers, took me by the temples, and, tears in her bright
blue eyes, attempted, unsuccessfully, to glue herself to my lips.
‘Take care of yourself/ she said, ‘kiss your daughter for me.’
A clap of thunder reverberated throughout the house, and she
added:
‘Perhaps, somewhere, some day, at a less miserable time, we
may see each other again3 (Jean, whatever, wherever you are, in
minus time-space or plus soul-time, forgive me all this, paren­
thesis included) <
And presently I was shaking hands with both of them in the
street, the sloping street, and everything was whirling and flying
before the approaching white deluge, and a truck with a mattress
from Philadelphia was confidently rolling down to an empty
house, and dust was running and writhing over the exact slab of
stone where Charlotte, when they lifted the laprobe for me, had
been revealed, curled up, her eyes intact, their black lashes still
wet, matted, like yours, Lolita.

ONE MIGHT suppose that with all blocks removed and a pros­
pect of delirious and unlimited delights before me, I would have
mentally sunk back, heaving a sigh of delicious relief. Eh bien,
pas du tout! Instead of basking in the beams of smiling Chance, I
was obsessed by all sorts of purely ethical doubts and fears. For in­
stance: might it not surprise people that Lo was so consistently
debarred from attending festive and funeral functions in her im­
104

mediate family? You remember— we had not had her at our wed­
ding. O r another thing: granted it was the long hairy arm of
Coincidence that had reached out to remove an innocent woman,
might Coincidence not ignore in a heathen moment what its twin
limb had done and hand Lo a premature note of commiseration?
True, the accident had been reported only by the Ramsdale
Journal— not by the Parkington Recorder or the Climax Herald,
Camp Q . being in another state, and local deaths having no
federal news interest; but I could not help fancying that somehow
Dolly Haze had been informed already, and that at the very time
I was on my way to fetch her, she was being driven to Ramsdale
by friends unknown to me. Still more disquieting than all these
conjectures and worries, was the fact that Humbert Humbert, a
brand-new American citizen of obscure European origin, had
taken no steps toward becoming the legal guardian of his dead
wife’s daughter (twelve years and seven months old). W ould I
ever dare take those steps? I could not repress a shiver whenever
I imagined my nudity hemmed in by mysterious statutes in the
merciless glare of the Common Law.
M y scheme was a marvel of primitive art: I would whizz over
to Camp Q,., tell Lolita her mother was about to undergo a major
operation at an invented hospital, and then keep moving with
my sleepy nymphet from inn to inn while her mother got better
and better and finally died. But as I travelled campward my
anxiety grew. I could not bear to think I might not find Lolita
there— or find, instead, another, scared, Lolita clamouring for
some family friend: not the Farlows, thank God— she hardly knew
them— but might there not be other people I had not reckoned
with? Finally, I decided to make the long-distance call I had
simulated so well a few days before. It was raining hard when I
pulled up in a muddy suburb of Parkington, just before the
Fork, one prong of which by-passed the city and led to the high­
way which crossed the hills to Lake Climax and Cam p Q,. I
flipped off the ignition and for quite a minute sat in the car
bracing myself for that telephone call, and staring at the rain, at
the inundated sidewalk, at a hydrant: a hideous thing, really,
painted a thick silver and red, extending the red stumps of its
arms to be varnished by the rain which like stylized blood dripped
upon its argent chains. No wonder that stopping beside those
105

nightmare cripples is taboo. I drove up to a gasoline station. A
surprise awaited me when at last the coins had satisfactorily
clanked down and a voice was allowed to answer mine.
Holmes, the camp mistress, informed me that Dolly had gone
Monday (this was Wednesday) on a hike in the hills with her
group and was expected to return rather late today. Would I care
to come tomorrow, and what was exactly----- Without going into
details, I said that her mother was hospitalized, that the situation
was grave, that the child should not be told it was grave and that
she should be ready to leave with me tomorrow afternoon. The
two voices parted in an explosion of warmth and good will, and
through some freak mechanical flaw all my coins came tumbling
back to me with a hitting-the-jackpot clatter that almost made me
laugh despite the disappointment at having to postpone bliss.
One wonders if this sudden discharge, this spasmodic refund, was
not correlated somehow, in the mind of McFate, with my having
invented that little expedition before ever learning of it as I did
now.
What next? I proceeded to the business centre of Parkington
and devoted the whole afternoon (the weather had cleared, the
wet town was like silver-and-glass) to buying beautiful things for
Lo. Goodness, what crazy purchases were prompted by the
poignant predilection Humbert had in those days for check
weaves, bright cottons, frills, puffed-out short sleeves, soft pleats,
snug-fitting bodices and generously full skirts! O h Lolita, you are
my girl, as Vee was Poe’s and Bea Dante’s, and what little girl
would not like to whirl in a circular skirt and scanties? Did I have
something special in mind? coaxing voices asked me. Swimming
suits? We have them in all shades. Dream pink, frosted aqua,
glans mauve, tulip red, oolala black. W hat about playsuits? Slips?
No slips. Lo and I loathed slips.
One of my guides in these matters was an anthropometric
entry made by her mother on L .’s twelfth birthday (the reader
remembers that Know-Your-Child book). I had the feeling that
Gharlotte, moved by obscure motives of envy and dislike, had
added an inch here, a pound there; but since the nymphet had
no doubt grown somewhat in the last seven months, I thought I
could safely accept most of those January measurements: hip
girth, twenty-nine inches; thigh girth (just below the gluteal

106

gulcus), seventeen; calf girth and neck circumference, eleven; chest
circumference, twenty-seven; upper arm girth, eight; waist,
twenty-three; stature, fifty-seven inches; weight, seventy-eight
pounds; figure, linear; intelligence quotient, i ai ; vermiform
appendix present, thank God.
Apart from measurements, I could of course visualize Lolita
with hallucinational lucidity; and nursing as I did a tingle on my
breastbone at the exact spot her silky top had come level once or
twice with my heart; and feeling as I did her warm weight in my
lap (so that, in a sense, I was always ‘with Lolita5 as a woman is
‘with child5), I was not surprised to discover later that my com­
putation had been more or less correct. Having moreover studied
a midsummer sale book, it was with a very knowing air that I
examined various pretty articles, sport shoes, sneakers, pumps of
crushed kid for crushed kids. The painted girl in black who
attended to all these poignant needs o f mine turned parental
scholarship and precise description into commercial euphemisms,
such as 1petite". Another, much older woman, in a white dress,
with a pancake make-up, seemed to be oddly impressed by my
knowledge of junior fashions; perhaps I had a midget for mistress;
so, when shown a skirt with two ‘cute5 pockets in front, I inten­
tionally put a naive male question and was rewarded by a smiling
demonstration of the way the zipper worked in the back of the
skirt. I had next great fun with all kinds of shorts and briefs—
phantom little Lolitas dancing, falling, daisying all over the
counter. We rounded up the deal with some prim cotton pyjamas
in popular butcher-boy style. Humbert, the popular butcher.
There is a touch of the mythological and the enchanted in those
large stores where according to ads a career girl can get a com­
plete desk-to-date wardrobe, and where little sister can dream of
the day when her wool jersey will make the boys in the back row
of the classroom drool. Lifesize plastic figures of snubbed-nosed
children with dun-coloured, greenish, brown-dotted, faunish
faces floated around me. I realized I was the only shopper in that
rather eerie place where I moved about fish-like, in a glaucous
aquarium. I sensed strange thoughts form in the minds of the
languid ladies that escorted me from counter to counter, from
rock ledge to seaweed, and the belts and the bracelets I chose
seemed to fall from siren hands into transparent water. I bought
107

an elegant valise, had my purchases put into it, and repaired to
the nearest hotel, well pleased with my day.
Somehow, in connection with that quiet poetical afternoon of
fastidious shopping, I recalled the hotel or inn with the seductive
name of The Enchanted Hunters which Charlotte had happened
to mention shortly before my liberation. With the help of a guide­
book I located it in the secluded town of Briceland, a four-hour
drive from Lo’s camp. I could have telephoned but fearing my
voice might go out of control and lapse into coy croaks of broken
English, I decided to send a wire ordering a room with twin
beds for the next night. What a comic, clumsy, wavering Prince
Charming I was! How some of my readers will laugh at me when
I tell them the trouble I had with the wording of my telegram!
What should I put: Humbert and daughter? Humberg and small
daughter? Homberg and immature girl? Homburg and child?
The droll mistake— the ‘g5 at the end— which eventually came
through may have been a telepathic echo of these hesitations of
mine.
And then, in the velvet of a summer night, my broodings over
the philtre I had with me! Oh miserly Hamburg! Was he not a
very Enchanted Hunter as he deliberated with himself over his
boxful of magic ammunition? To rout the monsters of insomnia
, should he try himself one of those amethyst capsules? There were
forty of them, all told— forty nights with a frail little sleeper at my
throbbing side; could I rob myself of one such night in order to
sleep? Certainly not: much too precious was each tiny plum, each
microscopic planetarium with its live stardust. Oh, let me be
mawkish for the nonce! I am so tired of being cynical.

2 6

this daily headache in the opaque air of this tombal ja il is

disturbing, but I must persevere. Have written more than a
hundred pages and not got anywhere yet. M y calendar is getting
confused. That must have been around August 15, 1947. D on’t
think Xcan go on. Heart, head— everything. Lolita, Lolita, Lolita,
Lolita, Lolita, Lolita, Lolita, Lolita, Lolita. Repeat till the page
is full, printer.

still in parki ngton . Finally, I did achieve an hour’s slumber
— from which I was aroused by gratuitous and horribly exhaust­
ing congress with a small hairy hermaphrodite, a total stranger.
By then it was six in the morning, and it suddenly, occurred to
me it might be a good thing to arrive at the camp earlier than. I
had said. From Parkington I had still a hundred miles to go, and
there would be more than that to the Hazy Hills and Briceland,
If I had said I would come for Dolly in the afternoon, it was only
because my fancy insisted on merciful night falling as soon as
possible upon my impatience. But now I foresaw all kinds of mis­
understandings and was all a-jitter lest delay might give her the
opportunity of some idle telephone call to Ramsdale. However,
when at 9.30 a.m. I attempted to start, I was confronted by a

109

dead battery, and noon was nigh when at last X left Parkington.
I reached my destination around half-past two; parked my car
in a pine grove where a green-shirted, redheaded impish lad stood
throwing horseshoes in sullen solitude; was laconically directed by
him. to an office in a stucco cottage; in a dying state, had to endure
for several minutes the inquisitive commiseration o f the camp
mistress, a sluttish worn-out female with rusty hair. Dolly she said
was all packed and ready to go. She knew her mother was sick
but not critically. Would Mr Haze, I mean, M r Humbert, care
to meet the camp counsellors? O r look at the cabins where the
girls live? Each dedicated to a Disney creature? Or visit the Lodge?
Or should Charlie be sent over to fetch her? The girls were just
finishing fixing the Dining Room for a dance. (And perhaps after­
wards she would say to somebody or other: ‘The poor guy looked
like his own ghost.5)
Let me retain for a moment that scene in all its trivial and fate­
ful detail: hag Holmes writing out a receipt, scratching her head,
pulling a drawer out of her desk, pouring change into my im­
patient palm, then neatly spreading a banknote over it with a
bright
. and five!5; photographs of girl-children; some gaudy
moth or butterfly, still alive, safely pinned to the wall (‘nature
study5) ; the framed diploma of the camp’s dietitian; my trembling
hands; a card produced by efficient Holmes with a report of
Dolly Haze’s behaviour for July (‘fair to good; keen on swimming
and boating5); a sound of trees and birds, and my pounding
heart. . . . I was standing with my back to the open door, and
then I felt the blood rush to my head as I heard her respiration
and voice behind me. She arrived dragging and bumping her
heavy suitcase. ‘Hi!5 she said, and stood still, looking at me with
sly, glad eyes, her soft lips parted in a slightly foolish but wonder­
fully endearing smile.
She was thinner and taller, and for a second it seemed to me
her face was less pretty than the mental imprint I had cherished
for more than a month: her cheeks looked hollowed and too much
lentigo camouflaged her rosy rustic features; and that first im­
pression (a very narrow human interval between two tiger heart­
beats) carried the clear implication that all widower Humbert
had to do, wanted to do, or would do, was to give this wanlooking though sun-coloured little orphan am yeux battus (and

even those plumbaceous umbrae under her eyes bore freckles) a
sound education, a healthy and happy girlhood, a clean home,
nice girl-friends of her age among whom (if the fates deigned to
repay me) I might find, perhaps, a pretty little magdlein for Herr
Doktor Humbert alone. But ‘in a wink’, as the Germans say, the
angelic line of conduct was erased, and I overtook my prey (time
moves ahead of our fancies!), and she was my Lolita again— in
fact, more of my Lolita than ever. I let my hand rest on her
warm auburn head and took up her bag. She was all rose and
honey, dressed in her brightest gingham, with a pattern of little
red apples, and her arms and legs were of a deep golden brown,
with scratches like tiny dotted lines of coagulated rubies, and the
rubbed cuffs of her white socks were turned down at the remem­
bered level, and because of her childish gait, or because I had
memorized her as always wearing heelless shoes, her saddle
oxfords looked somehow too large and too high-heeled for her.
Goodbye, Gamp Q,., merry Gamp Q,. Goodbye, plain unwhole­
some food, goodbye Charlie boy. In the hot car she settled down
beside me, slapped a prompt fly on her lovely knee; then, her
mouth working violently on a piece of chewing gum, she rapidly
cranked down the window on her side and settled back again.
We sped through the striped and speckled forest.
‘How’s Mother?’ she asked dutifully.
I said the doctors did not quite know yet what the trouble was.
Anyway, something abdominal. Abominable? No, abdominal.
We would have to hang around for a while. The hospital was in
the country, near the gay town of Lepingville, where a great poet
had resided in the early nineteenth century and where we would
take in all the shows. She thought it a peachy idea and wondered
if we could make Lepingville before 9 p.m.
‘We should be at Briceland by dinner time,’ I said, ‘and
tomorrow we’ll visit Lepingville. How was the hike? Did you have
a marvellous time at the camp?’
‘Uh-huh.’
‘Sorry to leave?’
‘Un-un.’
‘Talk, Lo— don’t grunt. Tell me something.’
What thing, Dad?’ (she let the word expand with ironic
deliberation).

‘Quite.’
‘It’s a sketch, you know. When did you fall for my mummy?’
‘Some day, Lo, you will understand many emotions and situa­
tions, such as for example the harmony, the beauty o f spiritual
relationship.’
‘Bah!’ said the cynical nymphet.
Shallow lull in the dialogue, filled with some landscape.
‘Look, Lo, at all those cows on that hillside.’
‘I think I ’ll vomit if I look at a cow again.’
‘You know, I missed you terribly, Lo.’
‘/ did not. Fact I’ve been revoltingly unfaithful to you, but it
does not matter one bit, because you’ve stopped caring for me,
anyway. You drive much faster than my mummy, mister.’
I slowed down from a blind seventy to a purblind fifty.
‘Why do you think I have ceased caring for you, Lo?’
‘Well, you haven’t kissed me yet, have you?’
Inly dying, inly moaning, I glimpsed a reasonably wide shoul­
der of road ahead, and bumped and wobbled into the weeds.
Remember she is only a child, remember she is only-----Hardly had the car come to a standstill than Lolita positively
flowed into my arms. Not daring, not daring let myself go— not
even daring let myself realize that this (sweet wetness and trem­
bling fire) was the beginning of the ineffable life which, ably
assisted by fate, I had finally willed into being— not daring really
kiss her, I touched her hot, opening lips with the utmost piety,
tiny sips, nothing salacious; but she, with an impatient wriggle,
pressed_hgr,mouth to mine so hard that I felt her big front teeth
and shared in jh e peppermint taste of her saliva. I knew, of
course, it was but an innocent game on her part, a bit of backfisch
foolery in imitation of some simulacrum of fake romance, and
since (as the psychotherapist, as well as the rapist, will tell you)
the limits and rules of such girlish games are fluid, or at least too
childishly subtle for the senior partner to grasp— I was dreadfully
afraid I might go too far and cause her to start back in revulsion
and terror. And, as above all I was agonizingly anxious to smuggle
her into the hermetic seclusion of The Enchanted Hunters, and
we had still eighty miles to go, blessed intuition broke our em-

brace— a split second before a highway patrol car drew up
alongside.
Florid and beetlebrowed, its driver stared at me:
‘Happen to see a blue sedan, same make as yours, pass you
before the junction?5
‘Why, no.’
‘We didn’t,’ said Lo, eagerly leaning across me, her innocent
hand on my legs, ‘but are you sure it was blue, because------5
The cop (what shadow of us was he after?) gave the little colleen
his best smile and went into a U-turn.
We drove on.
‘The fruithead!’ remarked Lo. ‘He should have nabbed you.’
‘Why me for heaven’s sake?’
*
‘Well, the speed in this bum state is fifty, and— No, don’t slow
down, you dull bulb, tie ’s gone now.’
‘We have still quite a stretch,’ I said, ‘and I want to get there
before dark. So be a good girl.’
‘Bad, bad girl,’ said Lo comfortably. ‘Juvenile delickwent, but
frank and fetching. That light was red. I ’ve never seen such
driving.5' ,■
We rolled silently through a silent townlet,
‘Say, wouldn’t Mother be absolutely mad if she found out we
were lovers?’
‘Good Lord, Lo, let us not talk that w ay.5
‘But we are lovers, aren’t we?’
‘Not that I know of. I think we are going to have some more rain.
Don’t you want to tell me of those little pranks of yours in camp?5
‘You talk like a book, Dad.’’
‘What have you been up to? I insist you tell me.5
‘Are you easily shocked?’
‘No. Go on.’
‘Let us turn into a secluded lane and I ’ll tell you.5
‘Lo, I must seriously ask you not to play the fool. Well?’
‘Well— I joined in all the activities that were offered.’
‘ Ensuile? ’
‘Ansooit, I was taught to live happily and richly with others
and to develop a wholesome personality. Be a cake, in fact.’
‘Yes. I saw something of the sort in the booklet.5
‘We loved the sings around the fire in the big stone fireplace

113

or under the darned stars, where every girl merged her own spirit
of happiness with the voice of the group.’
‘Your memory is excellent, Lo, but I must trouble you to leave
out the swear words. Anything else?’
‘The Girl Scout’s motto,5 said Lo rhapsodically, ‘is also mine.
I fill my life with worth-while deeds such as— well, never mind
what. M y duty is— to be useful. I am a friend to male animals. I
obey orders. I am cheerful. That was another police car. I am
thrifty and I am absolutely filthy in thought, word and deed.’
‘Now I do hope that’s all, you witty child.’
‘Yep, That’s all. No— wait a sec. We baked in a reflector oven.
Isn’t that terrific?’
‘Well, that’s better.’
‘We washed zillions of dishes. “ Zillions” you know is schoolmarm’s slang for many-many-many-many. Oh yes, last but not
least, as Mother says---- Now let me see— what was it? I know: We
made shadowgraphs. Gee, what fun.’
‘C ’est bien tout?’
‘ C'est. Except for one little thing, something I simply can’t tell
you without blushing all over.’
‘Will you tell it me later?’
‘I f we sit in the dark and you let me whisper, I will. Do you
sleep in your old room or in a heap with Mother?’
‘Old room. Your mother may have to undergo a very serious
operation, Lo.’
‘Slop at that candy bar, will you,’ said Lo.
Sitting on a high stool, a band of sunlight crossing her bare
brown forearm, Lolita was served an elaborate ice-cream con­
coction topped with synthetic syrup. It was erected and brought
her by a pimply brute of a boy in a greasy bow-tie who eyed my
fragile child in her thin cotton frock with carnal deliberation. M y
impatience to reach Briceland and The Enchanted Hunters was
becoming more than I could endure. Fortunately she dispatched
the stuff'with her usual alacrity,
‘How much cash do you have?’ I asked.
‘Not a cent,’ she said sadly, lifting her eyebrows, showing me
the empty inside of her money purse.
‘This is a matter that will be mended in due time,’ I rejoined
archly. ‘Are you coming?’
114

‘Say, I wonder if they have a washroom.’
‘You are not going there,’ I said firmly. ‘It is sure to be a vile
place. Do come on.’
She was on the whole an obedient little girl and I kissed her
in the neck when we got back into the car.
‘Don't do that,’ she said looking at me with unfeigned surprise.
‘Don’t drool on me. You dirty man.’
She rubbed the spot against her raised shoulder.
‘Sorry,’ I murmured. ‘I ’m rather fond of you, that’s all.’
We drove under a gloomy sky, up a winding road, then down
again.
‘Well, I’m also sort of fond of you,’ said Lolita in a delayed
soft voice, with a sort of sigh, and sort of settled closer to me.
(Oh, my Lolita, we shall never get there!)
Dusk was beginning to saturate pretty little Briceland, its phony
colonial architecture, curiosity shops and imported shade trees,
when we drove through the weakly lighted streets in search o f the
Enchanted Hunters. The air, despite a steady drizzle beading it,
was warm and green, and a queue of people, mainly children and
old men, had already formed before the box office of a movie
house, dripping with jewel-fires.
‘Oh, I want to see that picture. Let’s go right after dinner.
O h ,le t’s!’
‘We might,’ chanted Humbert— knowing perfectly well, the sly
tumescent devil, that by nine, when his show began, she would be
dead in his arms.
‘Easy!’ cried Lo, lurching forward, as an accursed truck in
front of us, its backside carbuncles pulsating, stopped at a
crossing.
I f we did not get to the hotel soon, immediately, miraculously,
in the very next block, I felt I would’ lose all control over the
Haze jalopy with its ineffectual wipers and whimsical brakes; but
the passers-by I applied to for directions were either strangers
themselves or asked with a frown ‘Enchanted what?’ as if I were
a madman; or else they went into such complicated explanations,
with geometrical gestures, geographical generalities and strictly
local clues (. . . then bear south after you hit the courthouse . . .)
that I could not help losing my way in the maze o f their wellmeaning gibberish. Lo, whose lovely prismatic entrails had already

digested the sweetmeat, was looking forward to a big meal and
had begun to fidget. As to me, although I had long become used
to a kind of secondary fate (McFate’s inept secretary, so to speak)
pettily interfering with the boss’s generous magnificent plan— to
grind and grope through the avenues of Briceland was perhaps
the most exasperating ordeal I had yet faced. In later months I
could laugh at my inexperience when recalling the obstinate
boyish way in which I had concentrated upon that particular inn
with its fancy name; for all along our route countless motor courts
proclaimed their vacancy in neon lights, ready to accommodate
salesmen, escaped convicts, impotents, family groups, as well as
the most corrupt and vigorous couples. Ah, gentle drivers gliding
through summer’s black nights, what frolics, what twists of lust,
you might see from your impeccable highways if Kum fy Kabins
were suddenly drained of their pigments and became as trans­
parent as boxes of glass!
The miracle I hankered for did happen after all. A man and a
girl, more or less conjoined in a dark car under dripping trees,
told us we were in the heart of The Park, but had only to turn
left at the next traffic light and there we would be. W e did not
see any next traffic light— in fact, The Park was as black as the
sins it concealed— but soon after failing under the smooth spell of
a nicely graded curve, the travellers became aware of a diamond
glow through the mist, then a gleam of lakewater appeared— and
there it was, marvellously and inexorably, under spectral trees, at
the top of a gravelled drive— the pale palace of The Enchanted
Hunters.
A row of parked cars, like pigs at a trough, seemed at first sight
to forbid access; but then, by magic, a formidable convertible,
resplendent, rubous in the lighted rain, came into motion— was
energetically backed out by a broad-shouldered driver— and we
gratefully slipped into the gap it had left. I immediately regretted
my haste for I noticed that my predecessor had now taken ad­
vantage of a garage-like shelter nearby where there was ample
space for another car; but I was too impatient to follow his
example.
‘Wow! Looks swank,’ remarked my vulgar darling squinting
at the stucco as she crept out into the audible drizzle and with a
childish hand tweaked loose the frock-fold that had stuck in the

peach-cleft— to quote Robert Browning. Under the arclights en­
larged replicas of chestnut leaves plunged and played on white
pillars. I unlocked the trunk compartment. A hunchbacked and
hoary Negro in a uniform of sorts took our bags and wheeled them
slowly into the lobby. It was full of old ladies and clergymen.
Lolita sank down on her haunches to caress a pale-faced bluefreckled, black-eared cocker spaniel swooning on the floral carpet
under her hand— as who would not, my heart— while I cleared
my throat through the throng to the desk. There a bald
porcine old man— everybody was old in that old hotel— examined
my features with a polite smile, then leisurely produced my
(garbled) telegram, wrestled with some dark doubts, turned his
head to look at the clock, and finally said he was very sorry, he
had held the room with the twin beds till half-past six, and now
it was gone. A religious convention, he said, had clashed with a
flower show in Briceland, and ‘The name,3 I said coldly, ‘is not
Humberg and not Humbug, but Herbert, I mean Humbert, and
any room will do, just put in a cot for my little daughter. She is
ten and very tired.3
The pink old fellow peered good-naturedly at Lo— still squat­
ting, listening in profile, lips parted, to what the dog’s mistress,
an ancient lady swathed in violet veils, was telling her from the
depths of a cretonne easy chair.
Whatever doubts the obscene fellow had, they were dispelled
by that blossom-like vision. He said, he might still have a room,
had one, in fact— with a double bed. As to the cot----- ■
‘Mr Potts, do we have any cots left?3 Potts, also pink and bald,
with white hairs growing out of his ears and other holes, would
see what could be done. He came and spoke while I unscrewed
my fountain pen. Impatient Humbert!
‘Our double beds are really triple,3 Potts cosily said tucking me
and my kid in. ‘One crowded night we had three ladies and a
child like yours sleep together. I believe one of the ladies was a
disguised man [my static]. However— would there be a spare cot
in 49, Mr Swine?3
‘I think it went to the Swoons,3 said Swine, the initial old
clown.
‘We’ll manage somehow, 3 1 said. ‘M y wife m ay join us later-r
but even then, I suppose, we’ll manage.3

The two pink pigs were now among my best friends. In the
slow clear hand of crime I wrote: D r Edgar H. Humbert and
daughter, 342 Lawn Street, Ramsdale. A key (342!) was halfshown to me (magician showing object he is about to palm)—
and handed over to Uncle Tom. Lo, leaving the dog as she would
leave me some day, rose from her haunches; a raindrop fell on
Charlotte’s grave; a handsome young Negress slipped open the
elevator door, and the doomed child went in followed by her
throat-clearing father and crayfish Tom with the bags.
Parody of a hotel corridor. Parody of silence and death.
‘Say, it’s our house number,’ said cheerful Lo.
There was a double bed, a mirror, a double bed in the mirror,
a closet door with mirror, a bathroom door ditto, a blue-dark
window, a reflected bed there, the same in the closet mirror, two
chairs, a glass-topped table, two bedtables, a double bed: a big
panel bed, to be exact, with a Tuscan rose chenille spread, and
two frilled, pink-shaded nightlamps, left and right.
I was tempted to place a five-dollar bill in that sepia palm, but
thought the largesse might be misconstrued, so I placed a quarter.
Added another. He withdrew. Click. Enfin seuls.
‘Are we to sleep in one room?’ said Lo, her features working in
that dynamic way they did— not cross or disgusted (though plain
on the brink of it) but just dynamic— when she wanted to load a
question with violent significance.
‘I’ve asked them to put in a cot. Which I ’ll use if you like.’
‘You are crazy,’ said Lo.
‘Why, my darling?’
‘Because, my dahrling, when dahrling Mother finds out she’ll
divorce you and strangle me.’
Just dynamic. Not really taking the matter too seriously.
, ‘Now look here,’ I said, sitting down, while she stood, a few
feet from me, and stared at herself contentedly, not unpleasantly
surprised at her own appearance, filling with her own rosy sun­
shine the surprised and pleased closet-door mirror.
‘Look here, Lo. Let’s settle this once for all. For all practical
purposes I am your father. I have a feeling of great tenderness
for you. In your mother’s absence I am responsible for your
welfare. We are not rich, and while we travel, we shall be obliged
— we shall be thrown a good deal together. Two people sharing
118

one room, inevitably enter into a kind— how shall I say— a
kind----- 5
‘The word is incest,’ said Lo— and walked into the closet,
walked out again with a young golden giggle, opened the adjoin­
ing door, and after carefully peering inside with her strange
smoky eyes lest she make another mistake, retired to the bath­
room. .■■■■■■■■■■
'V
I opened the window, tore off my sweat-drenched shirt,
changed, checked the pill vial in my coat pocket, unlocked
the----She drifted out. I tried to embrace her: casually, a bit of con­
trolled tenderness before dinner.
She said: ‘Look, let’s cut out the kissing game and get some­
thing to eat.’
It was then that I sprang my surprise.
Oh, what a dreamy pet! She walked up to the open suitcase as
if stalking it from afar, at a kind of slow-motion walk, peering at
that distant treasure box on the luggage support. (Was there
something wrong, I wondered, with those great grey eyes of hers,
or were we both plunged in the same enchanted mist?) She
stepped up to it, lifting her rather high-heeled feet rather high,
and bending her beautiful boy-knees while she walked through
dilating space with the lentor of one walking under water or in a
flight dream. Then she raised by the armlets a copper-coloured,
charming and quite expensive vest, very slowly stretching it
between her silent hands as if she were a bemused bird-hunter
holding his breath over the incredible bird he spreads out by the
tips of its flaming wings. Then (while I stood waiting for her) she
pulled out the slow snake of a brilliant belt and tried it on.
Then she crept into my waiting arms, radiant, relaxed, caress­
ing me with her tender, mysterious, impure, indifferent, twilight
eyes— for all the world, like the cheapest of cheap cuties. For that
is what nymphets imitate— while we moan and die.
‘What’s the katter with misses?’ I muttered (word-control
gone) into her hair.
T f you must know,’ she said, ‘you do it the wrong w ay.’
‘Show, wight ray.’
‘All in good time,’ responded the spoonerette.

,

,

Seva ascendes, pulsata brulans kitzelans, dementissima. Elevator

clatieranSf pausa, clatterans, populus in corridoro. Hanc nisi mors mihi
adimet nemo! Juncea puellula^ jo pensavo fondissime, nobserva nihil
quidquam; but, of course, in another moment I might have com­
mitted some dreadful blunder; fortunately, she returned to the
treasure box.
From the bathroom, where it took me quite a time to shift back
into normal gear for a humdrum purpose, I heard, standing,
drumming, retaining my breath, my Lolita’s £oo’s’ and ‘gee’s’ of
girlish delight.
She had used the soap only because it was sample soap.
‘Well, come on, my dear, if you are as hungry as I am.’
And so to the elevator, daughter swinging her old white purse,
father walking in front (notabene: never behind, she is not a
lady). As we stood (now side by side) waiting to be taken down,
she threw back her head, yawned without restraint and shook her
curls.
‘When did they make you get up at that camp?’
‘Half-past----- ’ she stifled another yawn— ‘six’— yawn in full
with a shiver of all her frame. ‘Half-past,’ she repeated, her throat
filling up again.
The dining room met us with a smell of fried fat and a faded
smile. It was a spacious and pretentious place with maudlin
murals depicting enchanted hunters in various postures and states
of enchantment amid a medley of pallid animals, dryads and
trees. A few scattered old ladies, two clergymen, and a man in a
sports coat were finishing their meals in silence. The dining room
closed at nine, and the green-clad, poker-faced serving girls were,
happily, in a desperate hurry to get rid of us.
‘Does not he look exactly, but exactly, like Quilty?’ said Lo in
a soft voice, her sharp brown elbow not pointing, but visibly
burning to point, at the lone diner in the loud checks, in the far
corner of the room.
.‘Like our fat Ramsdale dentist?’
Lo arrested the mouthful of water she had just taken, and put
down her dancing glass.
‘Course not,’ she said with a splutter of mirth. ‘I meant the
writer fellow in the Droms ad.’
Oh, Fame! Oh, Femina!
When the dessert was plunked down— a huge wedge of cherry
. .

'1

120

pie for the young lady and vanilla ice-cream for her protector,
most of which she expeditiously added to her pie— I produced a
small vial containing Papa’s Purple Pills. As I look back at those
seasick murals, at that strange and monstrous moment, I can only
explain my behaviour then by the mechanism o f that dream
vacuum wherein revolves a deranged mind; but at the time, it all
seemed quite simple and inevitable to me. I glanced around,
satisfied myself that the last diner had left, removed the stopper,
and with the utmost deliberation tipped the philtre into my palm.
I had carefully rehearsed before a mirror the gesture of clapping
my empty hand to my open mouth and swallowing a (fictitious)
pill. As I expected, she pounced upon the vial with its plump,
beautifully coloured capsules loaded with Beauty’s Sleep.
‘Blue!’ she exclaimed. ‘Violet blue. W hat are they made of?’
‘Summer skies,’ I said, ‘and plums and figs, and the grapeblood of emperors.’
‘No, seriously— please.’
‘Oh, just Purpills. Vitamin X . Makes one strong as an ox or
an ax. Want to try one?’
Lolita stretched out her hand, nodding vigorously.
I had hoped the drug would work fast. It certainly did. She
had had a long long day, she had gone rowing in the morning
with Barbara whose sister was Waterfront Director, as the
adorable accessible nymphet now started to tell me in between
suppressed palate-humping yawns, growing in volume— oh, how
fast the magic potion worked!— and had been active in other
ways too. The movie that had vaguely loomed in her mind was,
of course, by the time we watertreaded out of the dining room,
forgotten. As we stood in the elevator, she leaned against me,
faintly smiling— wouldn’t you like me to tell you?— half-closing
her dark-lidded eyes. ‘Sleepy, huh?’ said Uncle Tom who was
bringing up the quiet Franco-Irish gentleman and his daughter
as well as two withered women, experts in roses. They looked
with sympathy at my frail, tanned, tottering, dazed rose darling.
I had almost to carry her into our room. There, she sat down on
the edge of the bed, swaying a little, speaking in dove-dull, longdrawn tones.
‘If I tell you— if I tell you, will you promise [sleepy, so sleepy—
head lolling, eyes going out], promise you won’t make complaints?’

‘Later, Lo. Now go to bed. I ’ll leave you here, and you go to
bed. Give you ten minutes.’
‘Oh, I ’ve been such a disgusting girl,’ she went on, shaking her
hair, removing with slow fingers a velvet hair ribbon. ‘Lemme tell
you----- ’
‘Tomorrow, Lo. Go to bed, go to bed— for goodness sake, to
■ bed.’ ." ■■■■■■
I pocketed the key and walked downstairs.

28
gentlewomen of the j u r y ! Bear with me! Allow me to take
just a tiny bit of your precious time! So this was le grand moment
I had left my Lolita still sitting on the edge of the abysmal bed,
drowsily raising her foot, fumbling at the shoelaces and showing
as she did so the nether side of her thigh up to the crotch of her
panties— she had always been singularly absent-minded, or
shameless, or both, in matters of legshow. This, then, was the
hermetic vision of her which I had locked in— after satisfying
myself that the door carried no inside bolt. The key, with its
numbered dangler of carved wood, became forthwith the weighty
sesame to a rapturous and formidable future. It was mine, it was
part of my hot hairy fist. In a few minutes— say, twenty, say
half an hour, sicker ist sicker as my uncle Gustave used to say—
I would let myself into that ‘342’ and find my nymphet, my
beauty and bride, imprisoned in her crystal sleep. Jurors! If my
happiness could have talked, it would have filled that genteel
hotel with a deafening roar. And my only regret today is that I
did not quietly deposit key ‘342’ at the office, and leave the town,
the country, the continent, the hemisphere— indeed, the globe—
that very' same night.
Let me explain. I was not unduly disturbed by her self­

12a

accusatory innuendoes. I was still firmly resolved to pursue m y
policy of sparing her purity by operating only in the stealth of
night, only upon a completely anaesthetized little nude. Restraint
and reverence were still my m o tto -e v e n if that ‘purity1 (in­
cidentally, thoroughly debunked by modern science) had been
slightly damaged through some juvenile erotic experience, no
doubt homosexual, at that accursed camp o f hers. O f course, in
my old-fashioned, old-world way, I, Jean-Jacques Humbert, had
taken for granted, when I first met her, that she was as un­
ravished as the stereotypical notion of ‘normal child’ had been
since the lamented end of the Ancient World b .c . and its fascinat­
ing practices. We are not surrounded in our enlightened era b y
little slave flowers that can be casually plucked between business
and bath as they used to be in the days o f the Romans; and w e
do not, as dignified Orientals did in still more luxurious times,
use tiny entertainers fore and aft between the mutton and the
rose sherbet. The whole point is that the old link between the
adult world and the child world has been completely severed
nowadays by new customs and new laws. Despite my having
dabbled in psychiatry and social work, I really knew very little
about children. After all, Lolita was only twelve, and no matter
what concessions I made to time and place— even bearing in
mind the crude behaviour of American schoolchildren— I still was
under the impression that whatever went on among those brash
brats, went on at a later age, and in a different environment.
Therefore (to retrieve the thread of this explanation) the moralist
in me by-passed the issue by clinging to conventional notions o f
what twelve-year-old girls should be. The child therapist in me
(a fake, as most of them are— but no matter) regurgitated neoFreudian hash and conjured up a dreaming and exaggerating
Dolly in the ‘latency’ period of girlhood. Finally, the sensualist in
me (a great and insane monster) had no objection to some
depravity in his prey. But somewhere behind the raging bliss,
bewildered shadows conferred— and not to have heeded them,
this is what I regret! Human beings, attend! I should have under­
stood that Lolita had already proved to be something quite dif­
ferent from innocent Annabel, and that the nymphean evil
breathing through every pore of the fey child that I had prepared
for my secret delectation, would make the secrecy impossible,

123

and the delectation lethal. I should have known (by the signs
made to me by something in Lolita— the real child Lolita or
some haggard angel behind her back) that nothing but pain and
horror would result from the expected rapture. Oh, winged
gentlemen of the jury!
And she was mine, she was mine, the key was in my fist, my
fist was in my pocket, she was mine. In the course of the evocations
and schemes to which I had dedicated so many insomnias, I had
gradually eliminated all the superfluous blur, and by stacking
level upon level of translucent vision, had evolved a final picture.
Naked, except for one sock and her charm bracelet, spreadeagled on the bed where my philtre had felled her— so I foreglimpsed her; a velvet hair ribbon was still clutched in her hand;
her honey-brown body, with the white negative image o f a rudi­
mentary swimsuit patterned against her tan, presented to me its
pale breastbuds; in the rosy lamplight, a little pubic floss glis­
tened on its gluing hfltyck, The cold key with its warm wooden
addendum was in my pocket.
I wandered through various public rooms, glory below, gloom
above: for the look of lust always is gloomy; lust is never quite
r sure— even when the velvety victim is locked up in one’s dungeon
— that some rival devil or influential god may still not abolish
one’s prepared triumph. In common parlance, I needed a drink;
but there was no bar-room in that venerable place full of per­
spiring philistines and period objects.
I drifted to the Men’s Room. There, a person in clerical black
- —a ‘hearty party* comme on dit— checking with the assistance of
Vienna, if it was still there, inquired of me how I had liked
Dr Boyd’s talk, and looked puzzled when I (King Sigmund the
Second) said Boyd was quite a boy. Upon which, I neatly chucked
the tissue paper I had been wiping my sensitive finger-tips with
into the receptacle provided for it, and sallied lobbyward. Com­
fortably resting my elbows on the counter, I asked M r Potts was
he quite sure my wife had not telephoned, and what about that
cot? He answered she had not (she was dead, of course) and the
cot would be installed tomorrow if we decided to stay on. From
a big crowded place called The Hunters’ Hall came a sound of *
many voices discussing horticulture or eternity. Another room,
called The Raspberry Room, all bathed in light, with bright

little tables and a large one with ‘refreshments’, was still empty
except for a hostess (that type of worn woman with a glassy smile
and Charlotte’s manner of speaking); she floated up to me to ask
if I was M r Braddock, because if so, Miss Beard had been looking
for me. ‘What a name for a woman/ I said and strolled away.
In and out of my heart flowed my rainbow blood. I would give
her till half-past nine. Going back to the lobby, I found there a
change: a number of people in floral dresses or black cloth had
formed little groups here and there, and some elfish chance
offered me the sight of a delightful child o f Lolita’s age, in L olita’s
type of frock, but pure white, and there was a white ribbon in
her black hair. She was not pretty, but she was a nymphet, and
her ivory pale legs and lily neck formed for one memorable
moment a most pleasurable antiphony (in terms of spinal music)
to my desire for Lolita, brown and pink, flushed and fouled. T h e
pale child noticed my gaze (which was really quite casual and
debonair) and, being ridiculously self-conscious, lost countenance
completely, rolling her eyes and putting the back of her hand to
her cheek, and pulling at the hem of her skirt, and finally turning
her thin mobile shoulder blades to me in specious chat with her
cow-like mother.
I left the loud lobby and stood outside, on the white steps,
looking at the hundreds of powdered bugs wheeling around the
lamps in the soggy black night, full o f ripple and stir. A ll I would
do— all I would dare to do— would amount to such a trifle. . . .
Suddenly I was aware that in the darkness next to me there
was somebody sitting in a chair on the pillared porch, I could not
really see him but what gave him away was the rasp of a screwing
off, then a discreet gurgle, then the final note o f a placid screwing
on. I was about to move away when his voice addressed me:
‘Where the devil did you get her?’
‘I beg your pardon?’
‘I said: the weather is getting better.’
‘Seems so.’
‘Who’s the lassie?’
‘My daughter.’
‘You lie— she’s not.’
‘I beg your pardon?’
‘I said: July was hot. Where’s her mother?’

125

‘Dead.’ ■
‘I see. Sony. By the way, why don’t you two lunch with me
tomorrow. That dreadful crowd will be gone by then.’
‘We’ll be gone too. Good night.’
‘Sorry. I ’m pretty drunk. Good night. That child of yours needs
a lot of sleep. Sleep is a rose, as the Persians say. Smoke?5
‘Not now.’
He struck a light, but because he was drunk, or because the
wind was, the flame illumined not him but another person, a very
old man, one of those permanent guests of old hotels— and his
white rocker. Nobody said anything and the darkness returned
to its initial place. Then I heard the old-timer cough and deliver
himself of some sepulchral mucus.
I left the porch. A t least half an hour in all had elapsed. I ought
to have asked for a sip. The strain was beginning to tell. If a
violin string can ache, than I was that string. But it would have
been unseemly to display any hurry. As I made my way through
a constellation of fixed people in one corner of the lobby, there
came a blinding flash— and beaming Dr Braddock, two orchidomamentalized matrons, the small girl in white, and presumably
the bared teeth of Humbert Humbert sidling between the bride­
like lassie and the enchanted cleric, were immortalized— in so far
as the texture and print of small-town newspapers can be deemed
immortal. A twittering group had gathered near the elevator.
I again chose the stairs, 342 was near the fire escape. One could
still— but the key was already in the lock, and then I was in
the room.

the door of the lighted bathroom stood ajar; in addition to

that, a skeleton glow came through the Venetian blind from the
outside arclights; these intercrossed rays penetrated the darkness
of the bedroom and revealed the following situation.
Clothed in one of her old nightgowns, my Lolita lay on her
side with her back to me, in the middle o f the bed. Her lightly
veiled body and bare limbs formed a Z. She had put both pillows
under her dark tousled head; a band of pale light crossed her top
vertebrae.
I seemed to have shed my clothes and slipped into pyjamas
with the kind of fantastic instantaneousness which is implied
when in a cinematographic scene the process o f changing is cut;
and I had already placed my knee on the edge of the bed when
Lolita turned her head and stared at me through the striped
shadows.
Now this was something the intruder had not expected. The
whole pill-spiel (a rather sordid affair, entre nous soit dit) had had
for object a fastness of sleep that a whole regiment would not have
disturbed, and here she was staring at me, and thickly calling me
‘Barbara’. Barbara, wearing my pyjamas which were much too
tight for her, remained poised motionless over the little sleeptalker. Softly, with a hopeless sigh, Dolly turned away, resuming
her initial position. For at least two minutes I waited and strained
on the brink, like that tailor with, his home-made parachute forty
years ago when about to jump from the Eiffel Tower. Her faint
breathing had the rhythm of sleep. Finally I heaved myself on
to my narrow margin of bed, stealthily pulled at the odds and
ends of sheets piled up to the south o f my stone-cold heels— and
Lolita lifted her head and gaped at me.
As I learned later from a helpful pharmaceutist, the purple pill
did not even belong to the big and noble family of barbiturates,
and though it might have induced sleep in a neurotic who

believed it to be a potent drug, it was too mild a sedative to affect .
for any length of time a wary, albeit weary, nymphet. Whether
the Ramsdale doctor was a charlatan or a shrewd old rogue, does
not, and did not, really matter. W hat mattered, was that I had
been deceived. When Lolita opened her eyes again, I realized
that whether or not the drug might work later in the night, the
security I had relied upon was a sham one. Slowly her head
turned away and dropped on to her unfair amount of pillow. I lay
quite still on my brink, peering at her rumpled hair, at the
glimmer of nymphet flesh, where half a haunch and half a
shoulder dimly showed, and trying to gauge the depth of her sleep
by the rate of her respiration. Some time passed, nothing changed,
and I decided I might risk getting a little closer to that lovely
and maddening glimmer; but hardly had I moved into its warm
purlieus than her breathing was suspended, and I had the odious
feeling that little Dolores was wide awake and would explode in
screams if X touched her with any part o f my wretchedness.
Please, reader, no matter your exasperation with the tender­
hearted, morbidly sensitive, infinitely circumspect hero o f my book,
do not skip these essential pages! Imagine me; I shall not exist if
you do not imagine me; try to discern the doe in me, trembling
in the forest of my own iniquity; let’s even smile a little. After all,
there is no harm in smiling. For instance (I almost wrote Trinstance’), I had no place to rest my head, and a fit o f heartburn
(they call those fries ‘French’, grand Dieu/) was added to my
discomfort.
She was again fast asleep, my nymphet, but still I did not dare
to launch upon my enchanted voyage. La Petite Dormeuse ou
VAmant Ridicule. Tomorrow I would stuff her with these earlier
pills that had so thoroughly numbed her mummy. In die glove
compartment— or in the Gladstone bag? Should X wait a solid
hour and then creep up again? The science o f nympholepsy is a
precise science. Actual contact would do it in one second flat.
An interspace of a millimetre would do it in ten. Let us wait.
There is nothing louder than an American hotel; and, mind
you, this was supposed to be a quiet, cosy, old-fashioned, homey
place— ‘gracious living’ and all that stuff. The clatter of the
elevator’s gate-som e twenty yards north-east of my head but as
dearly perceived as if it were inside my left temple— alternated

with the banging and booming of the machine’s various evolu­
tions and lasted well beyond midnight. Every now and then,
immediately east of my left ear (always assuming X lay on my
back, not daring to direct my viler side toward the nebulous
haunch of my bed-mate), the corridor would brim with cheerful,
resonant and inept exclamations ending in a volley of goodnights. When that stopped, a toilet immediately north of m y
cerebellum took over. It was a manly, energetic, deep-throated
toilet, and it was used many times. Its gurgle and gush and a long
afterflow shook the wall behind me. Then someone in a southern
direction was extravagantly sick, almost coughing out his life with
his liquor, and his toilet descended like a veritable Niagara, im ­
mediately beyond our bathroom. And when finally all the water­
falls had stopped, and the enchanted hunters were sound asleep,
the avenue under the window of my insomnia, to the west of my
wake— a staid, eminently residential, dignified alley of huge trees
— degenerated into the despicable haunt o f gigantic trucks roaring
through the wet and windy night.
;r And less than six inches from me and my burning life, was
i^ebulot^s Lolita! After a long stirless vigil, m y tentacles moved
towards her again, and this time the creak of the mattress did not
awake her. I managed to bring my ravenous bulk so close to her
p4hat I felt the a.ura of her bare shoulder like a warm breath upon
-my cheek. Anti then, she sat up, gasped, muttered with insane
rapidity something about boats, tugged at the sheets and lapsed
back into her rich, dark, young unconsciousness. As she tossed,
within that abundant flow o f sleep, recently auburn, at present
lunar, her arm struck me across the face. For a second I held her.
She freed herself from the shadow of my embrace— doing this not
consciously, not violently, not with any personal distaste, but with
the neutral plaintive murmur of a child demanding its natural
rest. And again the situation remained the same: Lolita with her
curved spine to Humbert, Humbert resting his head on his hand
and burning with desire and dyspepsia.
The latter necessitated a trip to the bathroom for a draught o f
water which is the best medicine I know in my case, except
perhaps milk with radishes; and when I re-entered the strange
pale-striped fastness where Lolita’s old and new clothes reclined
in various attitudes of enchantment on pieces of furniture th a t.

J
J

■

seemed vaguely afloat, my impossible daughter sat up and in
clear tones demanded a drink, too. She took the resilient and cold
paper cup in her shadowy hand and gulped down its contents
gratefully, her long eyelashes pointing cupward, and then, with
an infantile gesture that carried more charm than any carnal
caress, little Lolita wiped her lips against my shoulder. She fell
back on her pillow (I had subtracted mine while she drank) and
was instantly asleep again.
I had not dared offer her a second helping of the drug, and
had not abandoned hope that the first might still consolidate her
sleep. I started to move toward her, ready for any disappoint­
ment, knowing I had better wait but incapable of waiting. My
pillow smelled of her hair. I moved toward my glimmering
darling, stopping or retreating every time I thought she stirred
or was about to stir. A breeze from wonderland had begun to
affect my thoughts, and now they seemed couched in italics, as
if the surface reflecting them were wrinkled by the phantasm of
that breeze. Time and again my consciousness folded the wrong
way, my shuffling body entered the sphere of sleep, shuffled out
again, and once or twice I caught myself drifting into a melan­
choly snore. Mists of tenderness enfolded mountains of longing.
Now and then it seemed to me that the enchanted prey was about
to meet half-way the enchanted hunter, that her haunch was
working its way toward me under the soft sand of a remote and
fabulous beach; and then her dimpled dimness would stir, and
I would know she was farther away from me than ever.
I f I dwell at some length on the tremors and gropings 5 f that
distant night, it is because I insist upon proving that I am not,
and never was, and never could have been, a brutal scoundrel.
The gentle and dreamy regions through which I crept were the
patrimonies of poets—
crime’s prowling ground. Had I reached
my goal, my ecstasy would have been all softness, a case of in­
ternal combustion of which she would hardly have felt the heat,
even if she were wide awake. But I still hoped she might gradually
be engulfed in a completeness of stupor that would allow me to
taste more than a glimmer of her. And so, in between tentative
approximations, with a confusion of perception metamorphosing
her into eyespots of moonlight or a fluffy flowering bush, I would
dream I regained consciousness, dream I lay in wait.

In the first antemeridian hours there was a lull in the restless
hotel night. Then around four the corridor toilet cascaded and
its door banged. A little after five a reverberating monologue
began to arrive, In several instalments, from some courtyard or
parking place. It was not really a monologue, since the speaker
stopped every few seconds to listen (presumably) to another
fellow, but that other voice did not reach me, and so no real
meaning could be derived from the part heard. Its matter-of-fact
intonations, however, helped to bring in the dawn, and the room
was already suffused with lilac grey, when several industrious
toilets went to work, one after the other, and the clattering and
whining elevator began to rise and take down early risers and
downers, and for some minutes I miserably dozed, and Charlotte
was a mermaid in a greenish tank, and somewhere in the passage
Dr Boyd said ‘Good morning to you5 in a fruity voice, and birds
were busy in the trees, and then Lolita pawned.
r*.
Frigid gentlewomen of the jury! I had thought that months,
perhaps years, would elapse before I dared to reveal myself to
Dolores Haze; but by 6 she was wide awake, and by 6.15 we
were technically lovers. I am going to tell you something very
strange: it was she who seduced me.
C t \ ^ w?-V - c
vVWl:
Upon hearing her first morning yawn, I feigned, handsome
profiled sleep. I just did not know what to do. W ould she be
shocked at finding me by her side, and not in some spare bed?
Would she collect her clothes and lock herself up in the bathroom?
Would she demand to be taken at once to Ramsdale— to her
mother’s bedside— back to camp? But my Lo was a sportive
lassie. I felt her eyes on me, and when she uttered at last that
beloved chortling note of hers, I knew her eyes had been laughing.
She rolled over to my side, and her warm brown hair came against
my collarbone. I gave a mediocre imitation o f waking up. W e
lay quietly. I gently caressed her hair, and we gently kissed. Her
kiss, to my delirious embarrassment, had some rather comical
refinements of flutter and probe which made me conclude she
had been coached at an early age by a little Lesbian. No Charlie
boy could have taught her that. As if to see whether I had my fill
and learned the lesson, she drew away and surveyed me. Her
cheekbones were flushed, her full underiip glistened, my dissolu­
tion was near. All at once, with a burst of rough glee (the sign of

the nymphet!), she put her mouth to my ear— but for quite a
while my mind could not separate into words the hot thunder of
her whisper, and she laughed, and brushed the hair off her face,
and tried again, and gradually the odd sense of living in a brand
new, mad new dream world, where everything was permissible,
came over me as I realized what she was suggesting. I answered
I did not know what game she and Charlie had played. ‘You
mean you have never----- ?’— her features twisted into a stare of
disgusted incredulity. ‘You have never----- 5 she started again. I
took time out by nuzzling her a little. ‘Lay off, will you/ she said
with a twangy whine, hastily removing her brown shoulder from
my lips. (It was very curious the way she considered— and kept
doing so for a long time— all caresses except kisses on the mouth
or the stark act of love either ‘romantic slosh5 or ‘abnormal5.)
‘You mean,5 she persisted, now kneeling above me, ‘you never
did it when you were a kid?5
‘Never,5 I said quite truthfully.
‘Okay,5 said Lolita, ‘here is where we start.5
However, I shall not bore my learned readers with a detailed
account of Lolita’s presumption. Suffice it to say that not a trace
of modesty did I perceive in this beautiful hardly formed young
girl whom modern co-education, juvenile mores, the campfire
racket and so forth had utterly and hopelessly depraved. She saw
the stark act merely as part of a youngster’s furtive world, un­
known to adults. What adults did for purposes of procreation
was no business of hers. M y life was handled by little Lo in an
energetic, matter-of-fact manner as if it were an insensate gadget
unconnected with me. While eager to impress me with the world
of tough kids, she was not quite prepared for certain discrepancies
between a kid’s life and mine. Pride alone prevented her from
giving up; for, in my strange predicament, I feigned supreme
stupidity and had her have her way— at least while I could still
bear it. But really these are irrelevant matters: I am not con­
cerned with so-called ‘sex’ at all. Anybody can imagine those
elements of animality. A greater endeavour lures me on: to fix
once for all the perilous magic of nymphets.

i have to tread carefully. I have to speak in a whisper. O h
you, veteran crime reporter, you grave old usher, you once
popular policeman, now in solitary confinement after gracing
that school crossing for years, you wretched emeritus read to
by a boy! It would never do, would it, to have you fellows fall
madly in love with my Lolita! Had I been a painter, had the
management of The Enchanted Hunters lost its mind one summer
day and commissioned me to redecorate their dining room writh
murals of my own making, this is what I might have thought up,
let me list some fragments:
There would have been a lake. There would have been an
arbour in flame-flower. There would have been nature studies—
a tiger pursuing a bird of paradise, a choking snake sheathing
whole the flayed trunk of a shoat. There would have been a
sultan, his face expressing great agony (belied, as it were, by his
moulding caress), helping a callypygean slave child to climb a
column of onyx. There would have been those luminous globules
of gonadal glow that travel up the opalescent sides of juke boxes.
There would have been all kinds of camp activities on the part o f
the intermediate group, Canoeing, Coranting, Combing Curls in
the lakeside sun. There would have been poplars, apples, a
suburban Sunday. There would have been a fire opal dissolving
within a ripple-ringed pool, a last throb, a last dab o f colour,
stinging red, smarting pink, a sigh, a wincing child.

i am trying to describe these things not to re-live them in my
present boundless misery, but to sort out the portion of hell and
the portion of heaven in that strange, awful, maddening world—
nymphet love. The beastly and beautiful merged at one point,
and it is that borderline I would like to fix, and I feel I fail to do
so utterly. Why?
The stipulation of the Roman law, according to which a girl
may marry at twelve, was adopted by the Church, and is still
preserved, rather tacitly, in some of the United States. And
fifteen is lawful everywhere. There is nothing wrong, say both
hemispheres, when a brute of forty, blessed by the local priest and
bloated with drink, sheds his sweat-drenched finery and thrusts
himself up to the hilt into his youthful bride. ‘ In such stimulating
temperate climates [says an old magazine in this prison library]
as St Louis, Chicago and Cincinnati, girls mature about the end
of their twelfth year.5 Dolores Haze was bom less than three
hundred miles from stimulating Cincinnati. I have but followed
nature. I am nature’s faithful hound. W hy then this horror that
I cannot shake off? Did I deprive her of her flower? Sensitive
gentlewomen of the jury, I was not even her first lover.

she told me the way she had been debauched. We ate flavour­

less mealy bananas, bruised peaches and very palatable potato
chips, and die Kleirn told me everything. Her voluble but dis­

jointed account was accompanied by many a droll mow. As I think
I have already observed, I especially remember one wry face on
an ‘ugh!’ basis: jelly-mouth distended sideways and eyes rolled
up in a routine blend of comic disgust, resignation and tolerance
for young frailty.
Her astounding tale started with an introductory mention of
her tent-mate of the previous summer, at another camp, a V ery
select’ one as she put it. That tent-mate (‘quite a derelict charac­
ter’, ‘half-crazy’, but a ‘swell kid’) instructed her in various mani­
pulations. At first, loyal Lo refused to tell me her name.
‘Was it Grace Angel?’ I asked.
She shook her head. No, it wasn’t, it was the daughter of a big
shot. He----‘Was it perhaps Rose Carmine?’
‘No of course not. Her father------’
‘Was it, then, Agnes Sheridan perchance?’
She swallowed and shook her head— and then did a double
take.
‘Say, how come you know all those kids?’
I explained.
‘Well,’ she said. ‘They are pretty bad, some of that school
bunch, but not that bad. I f you have to know, her name was
Elizabeth Talbot, she goes now to a swanky private school, her
father is an executive.’
I recalled with a funny pang the frequency with which poor
Charlotte used to introduce into party chat such elegant titbits as
‘when my daughter was out hiking last year with the Talbot
girl’.
I wanted to know if either mother learned of those sapphic
diversions?
‘Gosh, no,’ exhaled limp Lo mimicking dread and relief,
pressing a falsely fluttering hand to her chest.
I was more interested, however, in heterosexual experience.
She had entered the sixth grade at eleven, soon after moving to
Ramsdale from the Middle West. W hat did she mean by ‘pretty
bad’?
Well, the Miranda twins had shared the same bed for years,
and Donald Scott, who was the dumbest boy in the school, had
done it w i& Hazel Smith in his uncle’s garage, and Kenneth

Knight— who was the brightest— used to exhibit himself wherever
and whenever he had a chance, and----‘Let us switch to Camp Q,.,’ I said. And presently I got the
whole story.
Barbara Burke, a sturdy blonde, two years older than Lo and
by far the camp’s best swimmer, had a very special canoe which
she shared with Lo ‘because I was the only other girl who could
make Willow Island’ (some swimming test, I imagine). Through
July, every morning— mark, reader, every blessed morning—
Barbara and Lo would be helped to carry the boat to Onyx or
Eryx (two small lakes in the wood) by Charlie Holmes, the camp
mistress’s son, aged thirteen— and the only human male for a
couple of miles around (excepting an old meek stone-deaf handy­
man, and a farmer in an old Ford who sometimes sold the
campers eggs as farmers w ill); every morning, oh my reader, the
three children would take a short cut through the beautiful in­
nocent forest brimming with all the emblems of youth, dew, bird­
songs, and at one point, among the luxuriant undergrowth, Lo
would be left as sentinel, while Barbara and the boy copulated
behind a bush.
A t first, Lo had refused ‘to try what it was like’, but curiosity
and camaraderie prevailed, and soon she and Barbara were doing
it by turns with the silent, coarse and surly but indefatigable
‘ Charlie, who had as much sex appeal as a raw carrot but sported
a fascinating collection of contraceptives which he used to fish out
of a third nearby lake, a considerably larger and more populous
one, called Lake Climax, after the booming young factory town
of that name. Although conceding it was ‘sort of fun’ and ‘fine
for the complexion’, Lolita, I am glad to say, held Charlie’s mind
and manners in the greatest contempt. Nor had her temperament
been roused by that filthy fiend. In fact, I think he had rather
stunned it, despite the ‘fun’.
. By that time it was close to ten. With the ebb of lust, an ashen
sense of awfulness, abetted by the realistic drabness of a grey
neuralgic day, crept over me and hummed within my temples.
Brown, naked, frail Lo, her narrow white buttocks to me, her
sulky face to a door mirror, stood, arms akimbo, feet (in new
slippers with pussy-fur tops) wide apart, and through a forehanging
lock tritely mugged at herself in the glass. From the corridor

___________________I

came the cooing voices of coloured maids at work, and presently
there was a mild attempt to open the door of our room. I had Lo
go to the bathroom and take a much-needed soap shower. T h e
bed was a frightful mess with overtones o f potato chips. She tried
on a two-piece navy wool, then a sleeveless blouse with a swirly
clathrate skirt, but the first was too tight and the second too
ample, and when I begged her to hurry up (the situation was
beginning to frighten me), Lo viciously sent those nice presents
of mine hurtling into a comer, and put on yesterday’s dress.
When she was ready at last, I gave her a lovely new purse of
simulated calf (in which I had slipped quite a few pennies and
two mint-bright dimes) and told her to buy herself a magazine
in the lobby.
‘I ’ll be down in a minute,’ I said. ‘And if I were you, my dear,
I would not talk to strangers.’
Except for my poor little gifts, there was not much to pack;
but I was forced to devote a dangerous amount of time (was she
up to something downstairs?) to arranging the bed in such a w ay
as to suggest the abandoned nest of a restless father and his tom­
boy daughter, instead of an ex-convict’s saturnalia with a couple
of fat old whores. Then I finished dressing and had the hoary
bellboy come up for the bags.
Everything was fine. There, in the lobby, she sat, deep in an
overstaffed blood-red armchair, deep in a lurid movie magazine.
A fellow of my age in tweeds (the genre o f the place had changed
overnight to a spurious country-squire atmosphere) was staring
at my Lolita over his dead cigar and stale newspaper. She wore
her professional white socks and saddle oxfords, and that bright
print frock with the square throat; a splash of jaded lamplight
brought out the golden down on her warm brown limbs. There
she sat, her legs carelessly highcrossed, and her pale eyes skim­
ming along the lines with every now and then a blink. Bill’s wife
had worshipped him from afar long before they ever met: in fact,
she used to secretly admire the famous young actor as he ate
sundaes in Schwob’s drugstore. Nothing could have been mor.e
childish than her snubbed nose, freckled face or the purplish spot
on her naked neck where a fairytale vampire had feasted, or the
unconscious movement of her tongue exploring a touch o f rosy
rash around her swollen lips; nothing could be more harmless

than to read about Jill, an energetic starlet who made her own
clothes and was a student of serious literature; nothing could be
more innocent than the part in that glossy brown hair with that
silky sheen on the temple; nothing could be more naive----- But
what sickening envy the lecherous fellow whoever he was— come
to think of it, he resembled a little my Swiss uncle Gustave, also
a great admirer of le dicouvert— would have experienced had he
known that every nerve in me was still anointed and ringed with
the feel of her body— the body of some immortal daemon dis­
guised as a female child.
Was pink pig Mr Swoon absolutely sure my wife had not
telephoned? He was. If she did, would he tell her we had gone
on to Aunt Clare’s place? He would, indeedie. I settled the bill
and roused Lo from her chair. She read to the car. Still reading,
she was driven to a so-called coffee shop a few blocks south. Oh,
she ate all right. She even laid aside her magazine to eat, but a
queer dullness had replaced her usual cheerfulness. I knew little
Lo could be very nasty, so I braced myself and grinned, and
waited for a squall. I was unbathed, unshaven, and had had no
bowel movement. M y nerves were a-jangle. I did not like the way
my little mistress shrugged her shoulder's and distended her
nostrils when I attempted casual small talk. Had Phyllis been in
the know before she joined her parents in Maine? I asked with
a smile. ‘Look,’ said Lo making a weeping grimace, ‘let us get
off the subject.’ I then tried— also unsuccessfully, no matter how
I smacked my lips— to interest her in the road map. O ur destina­
tion was, let me remind my patient reader whose meek temper
Lo ought to have copied, the gay town of Lepingville, somewhere
near a hypothetical hospital. That destination was in itself a
perfectly arbitrary one (as, alas, so many were to be), and I shook
in my shoes as I wondered how to keep the whole arrangement
plausible, and what other plausible objectives to invent after we
had taken in all the movies in Lepingville. More and more un­
comfortable did Humbert feel. It was something quite special,
that feeling: an oppressive, hideous constraint as if I were sitting
with the small ghost of somebody I had just killed.
As she was in the act of getting back into the car, an expression
of pain flitted across Lo’s face. It flitted again, more meaning­
fully, as she settled down beside me. No doubt, she reproduced it
IBS

that second time for my benefit. Foolishly, I asked her what was
the matter. ‘Nothing, you brute,’ she replied. ‘You what?’ I asked.
She was silent. Leaving Briceland. Loquacious Lo was silent.
Cold spiders o f panic crawled down my back. This was an orphan.
This was a lone child, an absolute waif, with whom a heavylimbed, foul-smelling adult had had strenuous intercourse three
times that very morning. Whether or not the realization of a life­
long dream had surpassed all expectation, it had, in a sense, over­
shot its mark— and plunged into a nightmare. Xhad been careless,
stupid and ignoble. And let me be quite frank: somewhere at the
bottom of that dark turmoil I felt the writhing of desire again, so
monstrous was my appetite for that miserable nymphet. Mingled
with the pangs of guilt was the agonizing thought that her mood
might prevent me from making love to her again as soon as I
found a nice country road where to park in peace. In other words,
poor Humbert Humbert was dreadfully unhappy, and while
steadily and inanely driving toward Lepingville, he kept racking
his brains for some quip, under the bright wing of which he might
dare turn to his seat-mate. It was she, however, who broke the
silence:
‘Oh, a squashed squirrel,’ she said. ‘W hat a shame.’
‘Yes, isn’t it?’ (eager, hopeful Hum).
‘Let us stop at the next gas station,’ Lo continued. ‘I want to
go to the washroom.’
‘We shall stop wherever you want,’ I said. And then as a
lovely, lonely, supercilious grove (oaks, I thought; American trees
at that stage were beyond me) started to echo greenly the rush o f
our car, a red and ferny road on our right turned its head before
slanting into the woodland, and I suggestedwemightperhaps-----‘Drive on,’ my Lo cried shrilly.
‘Righto. Take it easy.’ (Down, poor beast, down.)
I glanced at her. Thank God, the child was smiling.
‘You chump,’ she said, sweetly smiling at me. ‘You revolting
creature. I was a daisy-fresh girl, and look what you’ve done to
me. I ought to call the police and tell them you raped me, O h
you, dirty, dirty old man.’
Was she just joking? An ominous hysterical note rang through
her silly words. Presently, making a sizzling sound with her lips
she started complaining of pains, said she could not sit, said I had

tom something inside her. The sweat rolled down my neck, and
we almost ran over some little animal or other that was crossing
the road with tail erect, and again my vile-tempered companion
called me an ugly name. When we stopped at the filling station,
she scrambled out without a word and was a long time away.
Slowly, lovingly, an elderly friend with a broken nose, wiped my
windshield— they do it differently at every place, from chamois
cloth to soapy brush, this fellow used a pink sponge.
She appeared at last. ‘Look,’ she said in thatneutral voice that
hurt me so, ‘give me some dimes and nickels. I want to call
mother in that hospital. W hat’s the number?5
‘Get in,’ I said. ‘You can’t call that number.’
‘Why?’
‘Get in and slam the door.’
She got in and slammed the door. The old garage man beamed
at her. I swung on to the highway.
‘Why can’t I call my mother if I want to?’
‘Because,’ I answered, ‘your mother is dead.’

in the gay town of Lepingville I

bought her four books of
comics, a box of candy, a box of sanitary pads, two cokes, a
manicure set, a travel clock with a luminous dial, a ring with a
real topaz, a tennis racket, roller skates with white high shoes,
field glasses, a portable radio set, chewing gum, a transparent
raincoat, sunglasses, some more garments— swooners, shorts, all
kinds of summer frocks. At the hotel we had separate rooms, but
in the middle of the night she came sobbing into mine, and we
made it up very gently. You see, she had absolutely nowhere else
to go.

-A*.

began our extensive travels all over the
States. To any other type of tourist accommodation I soon grew
to prefer the Functional Motel— clean, neat, safe nooks, ideal
places for sleep, argument, reconciliation, insatiable illicit love.
At first, in my dread of arousing suspicion, I would eagerly pay
for both sections of one double unit, each containing a double
bed. I wondered what type of foursome this arrangement was ever
intended for, since only a pharisaic parody of privacy could be
attained by means of the incomplete partition dividing the cabin
or room into two communicating love nests. By and by, the very
possibilities that such honest promiscuity suggested (two young
couples merrily swapping mates or a child shamming sleep to
ear-witness primal sonorities) made me bolder, and every now
and then I would take a bed-and-cot or twin-bed cabin, a prison
cell of paradise, with yellow window shades pulled down to
create a morning illusion of Venice and sunshine when actually
it was Pennsylvania and rain.
We came to know— nous connumes, to use a Flaubertian intona­
tion— the stone cottages under enormous Chateaubriandesque
trees, the brick unit, the adobe unit, the stucco court, on what
the Tour Book of the Automobile Association describes as ‘shaded’
or ‘spacious’ or ‘landscaped’ grounds. The log kind, finished in
knotty pine, reminded Lo, by its golden-brown glaze, of friedchicken bones. We held in contempt the plain whitewashed clap­
board Kabins, with their faint sewerish smell or some other
gloomy self-conscious stench and nothing to boast of (except
it was then that

‘ good beds’), and an unsmiling landlady always prepared to have
her gift (‘. . . well, I could give you . . .’) turned down.
. Nous connumes (this is royal fun) the would-be enticements of
their repetitious names— all those Sunset Motels, U-Bearn Cot­
tages, Hillcrest Courts, Pine V iew Courts, Mountain View
Courts, Skyline Courts, Park Plaza Courts, Green Acres, Mac’s
Courts. There was sometimes a special line in the write-up, such
as ‘Children welcome, pets allowed5 (Ton are welcome, you are
allowed). The baths were mostly tiled showers, with an endless
variety of spouting mechanisms, but with one definitely nonLaodicean characteristic in common, a propensity, while in use,
to turn instantly beastly hot or blindingly cold upon you, de­
pending on whether your neighbour turned on his cold or his hot
to deprive you of a necessary complement in the shower you had
so carefully blended. Some motels had instructions pasted above
the toilet (on whose tank the towels were unhygienically heaped)
asking guests not to throw into its bowl garbage, beer cans,
cartons, stillborn babies; others had special notices under glass,
such as Things to Do (Riding: Tou will often see riders coming down
Main Street on their way backfrom a romantic moonlight ride. ‘Often at
3 a.m.,5 sneered unromantic Lo).
Nous connumes the various types of motor court operators, the
reformed criminal, the retired teacher and the business flop,
among the males; and the motherly, pseudo-ladylike and madamic
variants among the females. And sometimes trains would cry in
the monstrously hot and humid night with heartrending and
ominous plangency, mingling power and hysteria in one desperate
set
avoided Tourist Homes, country cousins of Funeral ones,
old-fashioned, genteel and showerless, with elaborate dressing
tables in depressingly white-and-pink little bedrooms, and photo­
graphs of the landlady’s children in all their instars. But I did
surrender, now and then, to Lo’s predilection for ‘real5 hotels.
She would pick out in the book, while I petted her in the parked
car in the silence of a dusk-mellowed, mysterious side-road, some
highly recommended lake lodge which offered all sorts of things
magnified by the flashlight she moved over them, such as con­
genial company, between-meals snacks, outdoor barbecues— but
which in my mind conjured up odious visions of stinking high
144

school boys in sweatshirts and an ember-red cheek pressing against
hers, while poor D r Humbert, embracing nothing but two mas­
culine knees, would cold-humour his piles on the damp turf. Most
tempting to her, too, were those ‘Colonial’ Inns, which apart
from ‘gracious atmosphere’ and picture windows, promised ‘un­
limited quantities of M-m-m food’. Treasured recollections o f my
father’s palatial hotel sometimes led me to seek for its like in the
strange country we travelled through. I was soon discouraged;
but Lo kept following the scent of rich food ads, while I derived a
not exclusively economic kick from such roadside signs as T imber
Hotel, Children under 14 Free. O n the other hand, I shudder when
recalling that soi-disant ‘high-class’ resort in a Midwestern state,
which advertised ‘raid-the-icebox’ midnight snacks and, in­
trigued by my accent, wanted to know my dead wife’s and dead
mother’s maiden names. A two-days’ stay there cost me a hundred
and twenty-four dollars! And do you. remember, Miranda, that
other ‘ultrasmart’ robbers’ den with complimentary morning
coffee and circulating ice water, and no children under sixteen
(no Lolitas, of course)?
Immediately upon arrival at one of the plainer motor courts
which became our habitual haunts, she would set the electric fan
a-whirr, or induce me to drop a quarter into the radio, or she
would read all the signs and inquire with a whine why she could
not go riding up some advertised trail or swimming in that local
pool of warm mineral water. Most often, in the slouching, bored
way she cultivated, Lo would fall prostrate and abominably de­
sirable into a red springchair or a green chaise longue, or a
steamer chair of striped canvas with footrest and canopy, or a
sling chair, or any other lawn chair under a garden umbrella on
the patio, and it would take hours of blandishments, threats and
promises to make her lend me for a few seconds her brown limbs
in the seclusion of the five-dollar room before undertaking any­
thing she might prefer to my poor joy.
A combination of naivety and deception, of charm and vul­
garity, of blue sulks and rosy mirth, Lolita, when she chose, could
be a most exasperating brat. I was not really quite prepared for
her fits of disorganized boredom, intense and vehement griping,
her sprawling, droopy, dopey-eyed style, and what is called
goofing off— a kind of diffused clowning which she thought was

tough in a boyish hoodlum way. Mentally, I found her to be a
disgustingly conventional little girl. Sweet hot jazz, square dancing,
gooey fudge sundaes, musicals, movie magazines and so forth—
these were the obvious items in her list of beloved things. The
Lord knows how many nickels I fed to the gorgeous music boxes
that came with every meal we had! I still hear the nasal voices
of those invisibles serenading her, people with names like Sammy
and Jo and Eddy and Tony and Peggy and Guy and Patty and
Rex, and sentimental song hits, all of them as similar to my ear
as her various candies were to my palate. She believed, with a
kind of celestial trust, any advertisement or advice that appeared
in Movie Love or Screen Land— Starasil Starves Pimples, or ‘You
better watch out if you’re wearing your shirt-tails outside your
jeans, gals, because Jill says you shouldn’t’. I f a roadside sign
said: V isit O ur G ift S h o p — we had to visit it, had to buy its
Indian curios, dolls, copper jewellery, cactus candy. T he words
‘novelties and souvenirs’ simply entranced her by their trochaic
lilt. If some cafe sign proclaimed Icecold Drinks, she was auto­
matically stirred, although all drinks everywhere were ice-cold.
She it was to whom ads were dedicated: the ideal consumer, the
subject and object of every foul poster. And she attempted—
unsuccessfully— to patronize only those restaurants where the
holy spirit of Huncan Dines had descended upon the cute paper
- napkins and cottage-cheese-crested salads.
In those days, neither she nor I had thought up yet the system
of monetary bribes which was to work such havoc with my
nerves and her morals somewhat later. I relied on three other
methods to keep my pubescent concubine in submission and pass­
able temper. A few years before, she had spent a rainy summer
f under Miss Phalen’s bleary eye in a dilapidated Appalachian
farmhouse that had belonged to some gnarled Haze or other in
the dead past. It still stood among its rank acres of golden rod
on the edge of a flowerless forest, at the end of a permanently
muddy road, twenty miles from the nearest hamlet. Lo recalled
that scarecrow of a house, the solitude, the soggy old pastures,
the wind, the bloated wilderness, with an energy of disgust that
distorted her mouth and fattened her half-revealed tongue. And
it was there that I warned her she would dwell with me in exile
for months and years if need be, studying under me French and

146

Latin, unless her ‘present attitude’ changed. Charlotte, I began,
to understand you!
A simple child, Lo would scream no! and frantically clutch at
my driving hand whenever I put a stop to her tornadoes of
temper by turning in the middle of a highway with the implica­
tion that I was about to take her straight to that dark and dismal
abode. The farther, however, we travelled away from it west, the
less tangible that menace became, and I had to adopt other
methods of persuasion.
Among these, the reformatory threat is the one I recall with
the deepest moan of shame. From the very beginning of our con­
course, I was clever enough to realize that I must secure her
complete co-operation in keeping our relations secret, that it
should become a second nature with her, no matter what grudge
she might bear me, no matter what other pleasures she might
seek.
‘Come and kiss your old man,’ I would say, ‘and drop that
moody nonsense. In former times, when I was still your dream
male [the reader will notice what pains I took to speak L o ’s
tongue], you swooned to records o f the number one throb-and-sob
idol of your coevals [Lo: ‘O f my what? Speak English’]. That idol
of your pals sounded, you thought, like friend Humbert. But
now, I am just your old man, a dream dad protecting his dream
daughter.
‘M y dike Dolores! I want to protect you, dear, from all the
horrors that happen to little girls in coal sheds and alley ways,
and, alas, comm vous le savez trop bien, ma geniille, in the blueberry
woods during the bluest of summers. Through thick and thin I
will still stay your guardian, and if you are good, I hope a court
may legalize that guardianship before long. Let us, however,
forget, Dolores Haze, so-called legal terminology, terminology
that accepts as rational the term “ lewd and lascivious cohabita­
tion” . I am not a criminal sexual psychopath taking indecent
liberties with a child. The rapist was Charlie Holmes; I am the
therapist— a matter of nice spacing in the way of distinction. I am
your daddum, Lo. Look, I ’ve a learned book here about young
girls. Look, darling, what it says. I quote: the normal girl—
normal, mark you— the normal girl is usually extremely anxious
to please her father. She feels in him the forerunner of the desired

elusive male (“ elusive” is good, by Polonius!). The wise mother
(and your poor mother would have been wise, had she lived) will
encourage a companionship between father and daughter,
realizing— excuse the corny style— that the girl forms her ideals
of romance and of men from her association with her father. Now,
what association does this cheery book mean— and recommend?
I quote again: Among Sicilians sexual relations between a father
and his daughter are accepted as a matter of course, arid the girl
who participates in such relationship is not looked upon with
disapproval by the society of which she is part. I ’m a great
admirer of Sicilians, fine athletes, fine musicians, fine upright
people, Lo, and great lovers. But let’s not digress. Only the other
day we read in the newspapers some bunkum about a middleaged morals offender who pleaded guilty to the violation of the
Mann Act and to transporting a nine-year-old girl across state
lines for immoral purposes, whatever these are. Dolores, darling!
You are not nine but almost thirteen, and I would not advise you
to consider yourself my cross-country slave, and I deplore the
Mann Act as lending itself to a dreadful pun, the revenge that
the Gods of Semantics take against tight-zippered Philistines. I
am your father, and I am speaking English, and I love you.
‘Finally, let us see what happens if you, a minor, accused of
having impaired the morals of an adult in a respectable inn, what
happens if you complain to the police of my having kidnapped
and raped you? Let us suppose they believe you. A minor female,
who allows a person over twenty-one to know her carnally, in­
volves her victim into statutory rape, or second-degree sodomy,
depending on the technique; and the maximum penalty is ten
years. So I go to jail. Okay. I go to jail. But what happens to you,
my orphan? Well, you are luckier. You become the ward of the
Department of Public Welfare— which I am afraid sounds a little
bleak. A nice grim matron of the Miss Phalen type, but more
rigid and not a drinking woman, will take away your lipstick
and fancy clothes. No more gadding about! I don’t know if you
have ever heard of the laws relating to dependent, neglected, in­
corrigible and delinquent children. While I stand gripping the
bars, you, happy neglected child, will be given a choice of various
dwelling places, all more or less the same, the correctional school,
the reformatory, the juvenile detention home, or one o f those

admirable girls’ protectories where you knit things, and sing
hymns, and have rancid pancakes on Sundays. You will go there,
Lolita— my Lolita, this Lolita will leave her Catullus and go there,
as the wayward girl you are. In plainer words, if we two are found
out, you will be analysed and institutionalized, my pet, c'est tout.
You will dwell, my Lolita will dwell (come here, my brown
flower) with thirty-nine other dopes in a dirty dormitory (no,
allow me, please) under the supervision of hideous matrons. This
is the situation, this is the choice. Don’t you think that under the
circumstances Dolores Haze had better stick to her old man?5
By rubbing all this in, I succeeded in terrorizing Lo, who
despite a certain brash alertness of manner and spurts of wit was
not as intelligent a child as her IQ_might suggest. But if I managed
to establish that background of shared secrecy and shared guilt,
I was much less successful in keeping her in good humour. Every
morning during our yearlong travels I had to devise some expec­
tation, some special point in space and time for her to look for­
ward to, for her to survive till bedtime. Otherwise, deprived o f a
shaping and sustaining purpose, the skeleton of her day sagged
and collapsed. The object in view7 might be anything— a light­
house in Virginia, a natural cave in Arkansas converted to a caflS,
a collection of guns and violins somewhere in Oklahoma, a replica
of the Grotto of Lourdes in Lousiana, shabby photographs of the
bonanza mining period in the local museum of a Rocky Mountains
resort, anything whatsoever— but it had to be there,, in front of
us, like a fixed star, although as likely as not Lo would feign
gagging as soon as we got to it.
By putting the geography of the United States into motion, I
did my best for hours on end to give her the impression of 'going
places’, of rolling on to some definite destination, to some unusual
delight. I have never seen such smooth amiable roads as those
that now radiated before us, across the crazy quilt of forty-eight
states. Voraciously we consumed those long highways, in rapt
silence we glided over their glossy black dance floors. Not only
had Lo no eye for scenery but she furiously resented my calling
her attention to this or that enchanting detail of landscape; which
I myself learned to discern only after being exposed for quite a
time to the delicate beauty ever present in the margin of our un­
deserving journey. By a paradox o f pictorial thought, the average

lowland North-American countryside had at first seemed to me
something I accepted with a shock of amused recognition because
of those painted oilcloths which were imported from America in
the old days to be hung above washstands in Central European
nurseries, and which fascinated a drowsy child at bedtime with
the rustic green views they depicted— opaque curly trees, a barn,
cattle, a brook, the dull white of vague orchards in bloom, and
perhaps a stone fence or hills of greenish gouache. But gradually
the models of those elementary rusticities became stranger and
stranger to the eye, the nearer I came to know them. Beyond the
tilled plain, beyond the toy roofs, there would be a slow suffusion
of inutile loveliness, a low sun in a platinum haze with a warm,
peeled-peach tinge pervading the upper edge o f a two-dimensional,
dove-grey cloud fusing with the distant amorous mist. There
might be a line of spaced trees silhouetted against the horizon,
and hot still noons above a wilderness of clover, and Claude
Lorrain clouds inscribed remotely into misty azure with only
their cumulus part conspicuous against the neutral swoon of the
background. Or again, it might be a stern El Greco horizon,
pregnant with inky rain, and a passing glimpse of some mummy­
necked farmer, and all around alternating strips of quicksilverish water and harsh green corn, the whole arrangement
opening like a fan, somewhere in Kansas.
Now and then, in the vastness of those plains, huge trees would
advance toward us to cluster self-consciously by the roadside and
provide a bit of humanitarian shade above a picnic table, with
sun flecks, flattened paper cups, samaras and discarded ice-cream
sticks littering the brown ground. A great user of roadside facilities,
my unfastidious Lo would be charmed by toilet signs— GuysGals, John-Jane, Jack-Jill and even BuckVDoe’s; while lost in
an artist’s dream, I would stare at the honest brightness of the
gasoline paraphernalia against the splendid green of oaks, or at a
distant hill scrambling out— scarred but still untamed— from the
wilderness of agriculture that was trying to swallow it.
, At night, tall trucks studded with coloured lights, like dreadful
giant Christmas trees, loomed in the darkness and thundered by
the belated little sedan. And-again next day a thinly populated
sky, losing its blue to the heat, would melt overhead, and Lo
would clamour for a drink, and her cheeks would hollow vigor­

ously over the straw, and the car inside would be a furnace when
we got in again, and the road shimmered ahead, with a remote
car changing its shape mirage-like in the surface glare, and seem­
ing to hang for a moment, old-fashionedly square and high, in the
hot haze. And as we pushed westward, patches of what the garageman called ‘sage brush’ appeared, and then the mysterious out­
lines of table-like hills, and then red bluffs ink-blotted with
junipers, and then a mountain range, dun grading into blue, and
blue into dream, and the desert would meet us with a steady gale,
dust, grey thorn bushes, and hideous bits of tissue paper mimick­
ing pale flowers among the prickles of wind-tortured withered
stalks all along the highway; in the middle of which there some­
times stood simple cows, immobilized in a position (tail left, white
eyelashes right) cutting across all human rules of traffic.
My lawyer has suggested I give a clear, frank account of the
itinerary we followed, and I suppose I have reached here a point
where I cannot avoid that chore. Roughly, during that mad year
(August 1947 to August 1948), our route began with a series of
wiggles and whorls in New England, then meandered south, up
and down, east and west; dipped deep into ce qu’on appelle Dixie­
land, avoided Florida because the Farlows were there, veered
west, zigzagged through corn belts and cotton belts (this is not
too clear I am afraid, Clarence, but I did not keep any notes, and
have at my disposal only an atrociously crippled tour book in
three volumes, almost a symbol of my torn and tattered past, in
which to check these recollections); crossed and recrossed the
Rockies, straggled through southern deserts where we wintered;
reached the Pacific, turned north through the pale lilac fluff of
flowering shrubs along forest roads; almost reached the Canadian
border; and proceeded east, across good lands and bad lands,
back to agriculture on a grand scale, avoiding, despite little L o ’s
strident remonstrations, little Lo’s birthplace, in a com, coal and
hog producing area; and finally returned to the fold o f the East,
petering out in the college town of Beardsley.

2
now, in perusing what follows, the reader should bear in mind

not only the general circuit as adumbrated above, with its many
side-trips and tourist traps, secondary circles and skittish devia­
tions, but also the fact that far from being an indolent pariie de
plaisir, our tour was a hard, twisted, teleological growth, whose
sole raison d'etre (these French cliches are symptomatic) was to
keep my companion in passable humour from kiss to kiss.
Thumbing through that battered tour book, I dimly evoke
that Magnolia Garden in a southern state which cost me four
bucks and which, according to the ad in the book, you must visit
for three reasons: because John Galsworthy (a stone-dead writer
of sorts) acclaimed it as the world’s fairest garden; because in 1900
Baedeker’s Guide had marked it with a star; and finally, because
. . . O, Reader, M y Reader, guess! . . . because children (and by
Jingo was not my Lolita a child!) will ‘walk starry-eyed and re­
verently through this foretaste of Heaven, drinking in beauty that
can influence a life*. ‘Not mine,’ said grim Lo, and settled down
on a bench with the fillings of two Sunday papers in her lovely
lap.
We passed and re-passed through the whole gamut of American
roadside restaurants, from the lowly Eat with its deer head (dark
trace of long tear at inner canthus), ‘humorous’ picture post cards
of the posterior ‘Kurort’ type, impaled guest checks, life savers,
sunglasses, adman visions of celestial sundaes, one-half of a choco­
late cake under glass, and several horribly experienced flies zig­
zagging over the sticky sugar-pour on the ignoble counter; and
all the way to the expensive place with the subdued lights, pre­
posterously poor table linen, inept waiters (ex-convicts or college
boys), the roan back of a screen actress, the sable eyebrows of her
male of the moment, and an orchestra of zoot-suiters with
trumpets.
' We inspected the world’s largest stalagmite in a cave where
three south-eastern states have a family reunion; admission by
152

age; adults one dollar, pubescents sixty cents. A granite obelisk
commemorating the Battle 6 f BJue Licks, with old bones and
Indian pottery in the museummearby, Lo a dime, very reason­
able. The present log cabin boldly simulating the past log cabin
where Lincoln was born. A boulder, with a plaque, in' memory
of the author of Trees (by now we are in Poplar Gove, NG,
reached by what my kind, tolerant, usually so restrained tour
book angrily calls £a very narrow road, poorly maintained5, to
which, though no Kilmerite, I subscribe). From a hired motorboat operated by an elderly, but still repulsively handsome
White Russian, a baron they said (Lo’s palms were damp, the
little fool), who had known in California good old Maximovich
and Valeria, we could distinguish the inaccessible ‘millionares*
colony5 on an island, somewhere off the Georgia coast. W e in­
spected further: a collection of European hotel picture post cards
in a museum devoted to hobbies at a Mississippi resort, where
with a hot wave of pride I discovered a coloured photo o f m y
father’s Mirana, its striped awnings, its flag flying above the re­
touched palm trees. ‘So what?5 said Lo, squinting at the bronzed
owner of an expensive car who had followed us into the Hobby
House. Relics of the cotton era. A forest in Arkansas and, on her
brown shoulder, a raised purple-pink swelling (the work of some
gnat) which I eased of its beautiful transparent poison between
my long thumbnails and then sucked till I was gorged on her
spicy blood. Bourbon Street (in a town named New Orleans)
whose sidewalks, said the tour book, ‘may [I liked the ‘m ay’]
feature entertainment by pickaninnies who will [I liked the ‘will*
even better] tap-dance for pennies5(whatfun), while ‘its numerous
small and intimate night clubs are thronged with visitors*
(naughty). Collections of frontier lore. Ante-bellum homes with
iron-trellis balconies and hand-worked stairs, the kind down
which movie ladies with sun-kissed shoulders run in rich Tech­
nicolor, holding up the fronts of their flounced skirts with both
little hands in that special way, and the devoted Negress shaking
her head on the upper landing. The Menninger Foundation, a
psychiatric clinic, just for the heck of it. A patch of beautifully
eroded clay; and yucca blossoms, so pure, so waxy, but lousy
with creeping white flies. Independence, Missouri, the starting
point of the Old Oregon Trail; and Abilene, Kansas, the home

of the Wild Bill Something Rodeo. Distant mountains. Near
mountains. More mountains; bluish beauties never attainable, or
ever turning into inhabited hill after hill; south-eastern ranges,
altitudinal failures as alps go; heart and sky-piercing snow-veined
grey colossi of stone, relentless peaks appearing from nowhere at
a turn of the highway; timbered enormities, with a system of
neatly overlapping dark firs, interrupted in places by pale puffs
of aspen; pink and lilac formations, Pharaonic, phallic, ‘too pre­
historic for words’ (blas6 Lo); buttes of black lava; early spring
mountains with young-elephant lanugo along their spines; endof-the-summer mountains, all hunched up, their heavy Egyptian
limbs folded under folds of tawny moth-eaten plush; oatmeal
hills, flecked with green round oaks; a last rufous mountain with
a rich rug of lucerne at its foot.
Moreover, we inspected: Little Iceberg Lake, somewhere in
Colorado, and the snow banks, and the cushionets of tiny alpine
flowers, and more snow; down which Lo in red-peaked cap tried
to slide, and squealed, and was snowballed by some youngsters,
and retaliated in kind comm on dit. Skeletons of burned aspens,
patches of spired blue flowers. The various items of a scenic drive.
Hundreds of scenic drives, thousands of Bear Creeks, Soda
Springs, Painted Canyons. Texas, a drought-struck plain. Crystal
Chamber in the longest cave in the world, children under twelve
free, Lo a young captive. A collection of a local lady’s home-made
sculptures, closed on a miserable Monday morning, dust, wind,
witherland. Conception Park, in a town on the Mexican border
which I dared not cross. There and elsewhere, hundreds of grey
hummingbirds in the dusk, probing the throats of dim flowers.
Shakespeare, a ghost town in New Mexico, where bad man
Russian Bill was colourfully hanged seventy years ago. Fish
hatcheries. Cliff dwellings. The mummy of a child (Florentine
Bea’s Indian contemporary). Our twentieth Hell’s Canyon. Our
.fiftieth Gateway to something or other vide that tour book, the
cover of which had been lost by that time. A tick in my groin.
Always the same three old men, in hats and suspenders, idling
away the summer afternoon under the trees near the public
fountain. A hazy blue view beyond railings on a mountain pass,
and the backs of a family enjoying it (with Lo, in a hot, happy,
wild, intense, hopeful, hopeless whisper— ‘Look, the McCrystals,

please, let’s talk to them, please’— let’s talk to them, reader!—
please! I’ll do anything you want, oh, please . . . ’). Indian cere­
monial*dances, strictly commercial. A R T : American Refrigerator
Transit Company. Obvious Arizona, pueblo dwellings, aboriginal
pictographs, a dinosaur track in a desert canyon, printed there
thirty million years ago, when I was a child. A lanky, six-foot,
pale boy with an active Adam ’s apple, ogling Lo and her orangebrown bare midriff, which I kissed five minutes later, Jack.
Winter in the desert, spring in the foothills, almonds in bloom.
Reno, a dreary town in Nevada, with a nightlife said to be
‘cosmopolitan and mature’. A winery in California, with a
church built in the shape of a wine b arrel Death Valley. Scotty’s
Castle. Works of Art collected by one Rogers over a period o f
years. The ugly villas of handsome actresses. R . L . Stevenson’s
footprint on an extinct volcano. Mission Dolores: good'title for
book. Surf-carved sandstone festoons. A man having a lavish
epileptic fit on the ground in Russian Gulch State Park. Blue,
blue Crater Lake. A fish hatchery in Idaho and the State Peni­
tentiary. Sombre Yellowstone Park and its coloured hot springs,
baby geysers, rainbows of bubbling mud— symbols o f my passion.
A herd of antelopes in a wildlife refuge. O ur hundredth cavern,
adults one dollar, Lolita fifty cents. A chateau built by a French
marquess in ND. The Corn Palace in SD; and the huge heads o f
presidents carved in towering granite. The Bearded Woman read
our jingle and now she is no longer single. A zoo in Indiana where
a large troop of monkeys lived on concrete replica o f Christopher
Columbus’ flagship. Billions of dead, or half-dead, fish-smelling
May flies in every window of every eating place all along a dreary
sand shore. Fat gulls on big stones as seen from the ferry City of
Cheboygan, whose brown woolly smoke arched and dipped over
the green shadow it cast on the aquamarine lake. A motel whose
ventilator pipe passed under the city sewer. Lincoln’s home,
largely spurious, with parlour books and period furniture that
most visitors reverently accepted as personal belongings.
We had rows, minor and major. T h e biggest ones we had took
place: at Lacework Cabins, Virginia; on Park Avenue, Little
Rock, near a school; on Milner Pass, 10,759 feet high, in Colo­
rado; at the corner of Seventh Street and Central Avenue in
Phoenix, Arizona; on Third Street, Los Angeles, because the

155

tickets to some studio or other were sold out; at a motel called
Poplar Shade in Utah, where six pubescent trees were scarcely
taller than my Lolita, and where she asked, a propos de rien, how
long did I think we were going to live in stuffy cabins, doing filthy
things together and never behaving like ordinary people? On
N. Broadway, Burns, Oregon, corner of W. Washington, facing
Safeway, a grocery. In some little town in the Sun Valley of
Idaho, before a brick hotel, pale and flushed bricks nicely mixed,
with, opposite, a poplar playing its liquid shadows all over the
local Honour Roll. In a sage brush wilderness, between Pinedale
and Farson. Somewhere in Nebraska, on Main Street, near the
First National Bank, established 188g, with a view of a railway
crossing in the vista of the street, and beyond that the white
organ pipes of a multiple silo. And on McEwen Street, corner of
Wheaton Avenue, in a Michigan town bearing his first name.
We came to know the curious roadside species, Hitchhiking
Man, Homo pollex of science, with all its many sub-species and
forms: the modest soldier, spic and span, quietly waiting, quietly
conscious of khaki’s viatic appeal; the schoolboy wishing to go two
blocks; the killer wishing to go two thousand miles; the mysteri­
ous, nervous, elderly gent, with brand-new suitcase and clipped
moustache; a trio of optimistic Mexicans; the college student dis­
playing the grime of vacational outdoor work as proudly as the
name of the famous college arching across the front of his sweat­
shirt; the desperate lady whose battery has just died on her; the
clean-cut, glossy-haired, shifty-eyed, white-faced young beasts in
loud shirts and coats, vigorously, almost priapically thrusting out
tense thumbs to tempt lone women or sad-sack salesmen with
fancy cravings.
‘Let’s take him,’ Lo would often plead, rubbing her knees
together in a way she had, as some particularly disgusting pollex,
some man of my age and shoulder breadth, with the face a claques
of an unemployed actor, walked backwards, practically in the
■ path of our car.
Oh, I had to keep a very sharp eye on Lo, little limp LoS
Owing perhaps to constant amorous exercise, she radiated, despite
her very childish appearance, some special languorous glow which
threw garage fellows, hotel pages, vacationists, goons in luxurious
cars, maroon morons near blued pools, into fits of concupiscence
156

which might have tickled my pride, had it not incensed my
jealousy. For little Lo was aware of that glow of hers, and I would
often catch her coulant un regard in the direction of some amiable
male, some grease monkey, with a sinewy golden-brown forearm
and watch-braceleted wrist, and hardly had I turned my back
to go and buy this very Lo a lollipop, than I would hear her and
the fair mechanic burst into a perfect love song of wisecracks.
When, during our longer stops, I would relax after a particu­
larly violent morning in bed, and out o f the goodness of my lulled
heart allow her— indulgent Hum!— to visit the rose garden or
children’s library across the street with a motor court neighbour’s
plain little Mary and M ary’s eight-year-old brother, L o would
come back an hour late, with barefoot M ary trailing far behind,
and the little boy metamorphosed into two gangling, golden­
haired high school uglies, all muscles and gonorrhoea. The reader
may well imagine what I answered my pet when— rather uncer­
tainly, I admit— she would ask me if she could go with Garl and
A 1 here to the roller-skating rink.
I remember the first time, a dusty windy afternoon, I did let her
go to one such rink. Cruelly she said it would be no fun if I accom­
panied her, since that time of day was reserved for teenagers. We
wrangled out a compromise: I remained in the car, among other
(empty) cars with their noses to the canvas-topped open-air rink,
where some fifty young people, many in pairs, were endlessly
rolling round and round to mechanical music, and the wind
silvered the trees. Dolly wore blue jeans and white high shoes, as
most of the other girls did. I kept counting the revolutions o f the
rolling crowd— and suddenly she was missing. When she rolled
past again, she was together with three hoodlums whom I had
heard analyse a moment before the girl skaters from the outside—
and jeer at a lovely leggy young thing who had arrived clad in
red shorts instead of those jeans or slacks.
At inspection stations on highways entering Arizona or Cali­
fornia, a policeman’s cousin would peer with such intensity at us
that my poor heart wobbled. ‘Any honey?’ he would inquire, and
every time my sweet fool giggled. I still have, vibrating all along
my optic nerve, visions of Lo on horseback, a link in the chain of a
guided trip along a bridle trail: Lo bobbing at a walking pace,
with an old woman rider in front and a lecherous red-necked

157

dude-rancher behind; and I behind him, hating his fat floweryshirted back even more fervently than a motorist does a slow
truck on a mountain road. O r else, at a ski lodge, I would see her
floating away from me, celestial and solitary, in an ethereal chair­
lift, up and up, to a glittering summit where laughing athletes
stripped to the waist were waiting for her, for her.
In whatever town we stopped I would inquire, in my polite
European way, anent the whereabouts of natatoriums, museums,
local schools, the number of children in the nearest school and so
forth; and at school bus time, smiling and twitching a little (I dis­
covered this tic nerveux because cruel Lo was the first to mimic it),
I would park at a strategic point, with my vagrant schoolgirl
beside me in the car, to watch the children leave school— always
a pretty sight. This sort of thing soon began to bore my so easily
bored Lolita, and, having a childish lack of sympathy for other
people’s whims, she would insult me and my desire to have her
caress me while blue-eyed little brunettes in blue shorts, copper­
heads in green boleros, and blurred boyish blondes in faded slacks
passed by in the sun.
As a sort of compromise, I freely advocated whenever and
wherever possible the use of swimming pools with other girl
children. She adored brilliant water and was a remarkably smart
diver. Comfortably robed, I would settle down in the rich post­
meridian shade after my own demure dip, and there I would sit,
with a dummy book or a bag of bonbons, or both, or nothing
but my tingling glands, and watch her gambol, rubber-capped,
bepearled, smoothly tanned, as glad as an ad, in her trim-fitted
satin pants and shirred bra. Pubescent sweetheart! How smugly
would I marvel that she was mine, mine, mine, and revise the
recent matitudinal swoon to the moan o f the mourning doves, and
devise the late afternoon one, and slitting my sun-speared eyes,
compare Lolita to whatever other nymphets parsimonious chance
collected around her for my anthological delectation and judg­
ment; and today, putting my hand on my ailing heart, I really
do not think that any of them ever surpassed her in desirability,
or if they did, it was so two or three times at the most, in a certain
light, with certain perfumes blended in the air— once in the hope­
less case of a pale Spanish child, the daughter of a heavy-jawed
nobleman, and another time— mais je divague.
158

Naturally, I had to be always wary, fully realizing, in my lucid
jealousy, the danger of those dazzling romps. I had only to turn
away for a moment— to walk, say, a few steps in order to see if our
cabin was at last ready after the morning change of linen— and
lo and behold, upon returning, I would find the former lesyeux
perdus, dipping and kicking her long-toed feet in the water on the
stone edge of which she lolled, while, on either side of her, there
crouched a brun adolescent whom her russet beauty and the quick­
silver in the baby folds o f her stomach were sure to cause to
se tordre— oh Baudelaire!— in recurrent dreams for months to
come.
I tried to teach her to play tennis so we might have more
amusements in common; but although I had been a good player
in my prime, I proved to be hopeless as a teacher; and so, in
California, I got her to take a number of very expensive lessons
with a famous coach, a husky, wrinkled old-timer, with a harem
of ball boys; he looked an awful wreck off the court, but now and
then, when, in the course o f a lesson, to keep up the exchange, he
would put out as it were an exquisite spring blossom o f a stroke
and twang the ball back to his pupil, that divine delicacy o f
absolute power made me recall that, thirty years before, I had
seen him in Cannes demolish the great Gobert! Until she began
taking those lessons, I thought she would never learn the game.
On this or that hotel court I would drill Lo, and try to relive the
days when in a hot gale, a daze of dust, and queer lassitude, I fed
ball after ball to gay, innocent, elegant Annabel (gleam of
bracelet, pleated white skirt, black velvet hair band)..With every
word of persistent advice I would only augment L o’s sullen fury.
To our games, oddly enough, she preferred— at least, before w e
reached California— formless pat ball approximations— more ball
hunting than actual play— with a wispy, weak, wonderfully
pretty in an ange gauche way coeval. A helpful spectator, I would
go up to that other child, and inhale her faint musky fragrance
as I touched her forearm and held her knobby wrist, and push
this way or that her cool thigh to show her the back-hand stance.
In the meantime, Lo, bending forward, would let her sunnybrown curls hang forward as she stuck her racket, like a cripple’s
stick, into the ground and emitted a tremendous ugh o f disgust
at my intrusion. I would leave them to their game and look on,

comparing their bodies in motion, a silk scarf round my throat’
this was in south Arizona, I think— and the days had a lazy
lining of warmth, and awkward Lo would slash at the ball and
miss it, and curse, and send a simulacrum of a serve into the net,
and show the wet glistening young down of her armpit as she
brandished her racket in despair, and her even more insipid
partner would dutifully rush out after every ball, and retrieve
none; but both were enjoying themselves beautifully, and in clear
ringing tones kept the exact score of their ineptitudes all the time.
One day, I remember, I offered to bring them cold drinks from
the hotel, and went up the gravel path, and came back with two
tall glasses of pineapple juice, soda and ice; and then a sudden
void within my chest made me stop as I saw that the tennis court
was deserted. I stooped to set down the glasses on a bench and
for some reason, with a kind of icy vividness, saw Charlotte’s face
in death, and I glanced around, and noticed Lo in white shorts
receding through the speckled shadow of a garden path in the
company of a tall man who carried two tennis rackets. I sprang
after them, but as I was crashing through the shrubbery, I saw,
in an alternate vision, as if life’s course constantly branched, Lo,
in slacks, and her companion, in shorts, trudging up and down a
small weedy area, and beating bushes with their rackets in listless
search for their last lost ball.
I itemize these sunny nothings mainly to prove to my judges
that I did everything in my power to give my Lolita a really good
time. How charming it was to see her, a child herself, showing
another child some of her few accomplishments, such as for
example a special way of jumping rope. With her right hand
holding her left arm behind her untanned back, the lesser
nymphet, a diaphanous darling, would be all eyes, as the pavonine
sun was all eyes on the gravel under the flowering trees, while in
the midst of that oculate paradise, my freckled and raffish lass
skipped, repeating the movements of so many others I had
gloated over on the sun-shot, watered, damp-smelling sidewalks
and ramparts of ancient Europe. Presently, she would hand the
rope back to her little Spanish friend, and watch in her turn the
repeated lesson, and brush away the hair from her brow, and fold
her arms, and step on one toe with the other, or drop her hands
loosely upon her still unflared hips, and I would satisfy myself
x6o

that the damned staff had at last finished cleaning up our cottage;
whereupon, flashing a smile to the shy, dark-haired page girl o f
my princess and thrusting m y fatherly fingers deep into L o’s hair
from behind, and then gently but firmly clasping them around
the nape of her neck, I would lead m y reluctant pet to our small
home for a quick connection before dinner.
‘Whose cat has scratched poor you?’ A full-blown fleshy hand­
some woman of the repulsive type to which I was particularly
attractive might ask me at the ‘lodge’, during a table d ’hote
dinner followed by dancing promised to Lo. This was one o f the
reasons why I tried to keep as far away from people as possible,
while Lo, on the other hand, would do her utmost to draw as
many potential witnesses into her orbit as she could.
She would be, figuratively speaking, wagging her tiny tail, her
whole behind in fact as little bitches do— while some grinning
stranger accosted us and began a bright conversation with a com­
parative study of licence plates. ‘Long w ay from home!’ In­
quisitive parents, in order to pump Lo about me, would suggest
her going to a movie with their children. W e had some close
shaves. The waterfall nuisance pursued me o f course in all our
caravansaries. But I never realized how wafery their wall sub­
stance was until one evening, after I had loved too loudly, a
neighbour’s masculine cough filled the pause as clearly as mine
would have done; and next morning as I was having breakfast at
the milk bar (Lo was a late sleeper, and I liked to bring her a
pot of hot coffee in bed), my neighbour of the eve, an elderly fool
wearing plain glasses on his long virtuous nose and a convention
badge on his lapel, somehow managed to rig up a conversation
with me, in the course of which he inquired, if m y missus was like
his missus a rather reluctant get-upper when not on the farm; and
had not the hideous danger I was skirting almost suffocated me,
I might have enjoyed the odd look o f surprise on his thin-lipped
weather-beaten face when I drily answered, as I slithered off my
stool, that I was ‘thank G od’ a widower.
How sweet it was to bring that coffee to her, and then deny it
until she had done her morning duty. And I was such a thought­
ful friend, such a passionate father, such a good paediatrician,
attending to all the wants o f my little auburn brunette’s body!
M y only grudge against nature was that I could not turn my
F

i6 i

Lolita inside out and apply voracious lips to her young matrix
her unknown heart, her nacreous liver, the sea-grapes of her
lungs, her comely twin kidneys. O n especially tropical afternoons,
in the sticky closeness of the siesta, I liked the cool feel of armchair
leather against my massive nakedness as I held her in my lap.
There she would be, a typical kid picking her nose while engrossed
in the lighter sections of a newspaper, as indifferent to my ecstasy
as if it were something she had sat upon, a shoe, a doll, the handle
of a tennis tacket, and was too indolent to remove. Her eyes would
follow the adventures of her favourite strip characters: there was
one well-drawn sloppy bobby-soxer, with high cheekbones and
angular gestures, that I was not above enjoying myself; she
studied the photographic results o f head-on collisions; she never
•^•doubted the reality of place, time and circumstance alleged to
match the publicity pictures of naked-thighed beauties; and she
was curiously fascinated by the photographs of local brides, some
in full wedding apparel, holding bouquets and wearing glasses.
A fly would, settle and walk in the vicinity of her navel or
explore her tender pale areolas. She tried to catch it in her fist
(Charlotte’s method) and then would turn to the column ‘Let’s
Explore Your Mind’.
‘Let’s explore your mind. Would sex crimes be reduced if
children obeyed a few don’ts? Don’t play around public toilets.
Don’t take candy or rides from strangers. If picked up, mark
down the licence of the car.’
\ . . and the brand of the candy,’ I volunteered.
She went on, her cheek (recedent) against mine (pursuant);
and this was a good day, mark, O reader!
‘I f you don’t have a pencil, but are old enough to read----- ’
‘W e,’ I quip-quoted, ‘medieval mariners, have placed in this
bottle----- ’
‘If,’ she repeated, ‘you don’t have a pencil, but are old enouglf
to read and write— this is what the guy means, isn’t it, you dope—
scratch the number somehow on the roadside.’
‘With your little claws, Lolita.’

she had entered my world, umber and black Humberland,
with rash curiosity; she surveyed it with a shrug of amused dis­
taste; and it seemed to me now that she was ready to turn away
from it with something akin to plain repulsion. Never did she
vibrate under my touch, and a strident ‘what d’you think you
are doing?’ was all I got for my pains. To the wonderland I had
to offer, my fool preferred the corniest movies, the most cloying
fudge. To think that between a Hamburger and a Humburger,
she would— invariably, with icy precision— plump for the former.
Did I mention the name of that milk bar I visited a moment
ago? It was, of all things, The Frigid Queen. Smiling a little
sadly, I dubbed her M y Frigid Princess. She did not see the wistful
joke.
Oh, do not scowl at me, reader, I do not intend to convey the
impression that I did not manage to be happy. Reader must
understand that in the possession and thraldom of a nymphet the
enchanted traveller stands, as it were, beyond happiness. For there is
no other bliss on earth comparable to that of fondling a nymphet.
It is hors concours, that bliss, it belongs to another class, another
plane of sensitivity. Despite our tiffs, despite her nastiness, despite
all the fuss and faces she made, and the vulgarity, and the danger,
and the horrible hopelessness of it all, I still dwelled deep in my
elected paradise— a paradise whose skies were the colour of hellflames— but still a paradise.
The able psychiatrist who studies my case— and whom by now
Dr Humbert has plunged, I trust, into a state of leporine fascina­
tion— is no doubt anxious to have me take my Lolita to the seaside
and have me find there, at last, the ‘gratification5 o f a lifetime
urge, and release from the ‘subconscious’ obsession o f an incom­
plete childhood romance with the initial little Miss Lee.
Well, comrade, let me tell you that I did look for a beach,
though I also have to confess that by the time we reached its

163

mirage of grey water, so many deligHts had already been granted
me by my travelling companion that the search for a Kingdom
by the Sea, a Sublimated Riviera, or whatnot, far from being the
impulse of the subconscious, had become the rational pursuit of a
purely theoretical thrill. The angels knew it, and arranged things
accordingly. A visit to a plausible cove on the Atlantic side was
completely messed up by foul weather. A thick damp sky, muddy
waves, a sense of boundless but somehow matter-of-fact mist—
what could be further removed from the crisp charm, the sapphire
occasion and rosy contingency of my Riviera romance? A couple
of semi-tropical beaches on the Gulf, though blight enough, were
starred and spattered by venomous beasties and swept by hurri­
cane winds. Finally, on a Californian beach, facing the phantom
of the Pacific, I hit upon some rather perverse privacy in a kind of
cave whence you could hear the shrieks of a lot of girl scouts
taking their first surf bath on a separate part of the beach, behind
rotting trees; but the fog was like a wet blanket, and the sand was
gritty and clammy, and Lo was all gooseflesh and grit, and for
the first time in my life I had as little desire for her as for a
manatee. Perhaps, my learned readers may perk up if I tell them
that even had we discovered a piece of sympathetic seaside some­
where, it would have come too late, since my real liberation had
occurred much earlier: at the moment, in point of fact, when
Annabel Haze, alias Dolores Lee, alias Loleeta, had appeared to
me, golden and brown, kneeling, looking up, on that shoddy
veranda, in a kind of fictitious, dishonest, but eminently satis­
factory seaside arrangement (although there was nothing but a
second-rate lake in the neighbourhood).
So much for those special sensations, influenced, if not actually
brought about, by the tenets of modern psychiatry. Consequently,
I turned away— I headed my Lolita away— from beaches which
were either too bleak when lone, or too populous when ablaze.
However, in recollection, I suppose, of my hopeless hauntings of
public parks in Europe, I was still keenly interested in outdoor
activities and desirous of finding suitable playgrounds in the open
where I had suffered such shameful privations. Here, too, I was
to be thwarted. The disappointment I must now register (as I
.gently grade my story into an expression of the continuous risk
and dread that ran through my bliss) should in no wise reflect

164

on the lyrical, epic, tragic but never Arcadian American wilds.
They are beautiful, heart-rendingly beautiful, those wilds, with a
quality of wide-eyed, unsung, innocent surrender that my lac­
quered, toy-bright Swiss villages and exhaustively lauded Alps
no longer possess. Innumerable lovers have clipped and kissed on
the trim turf of old-world mountainsides, on the innerspring moss,
by a handy, hygienic rill, on rustic benches under the initialled
oaks, and in so many cabanes in so many beech forests. But in the
Wilds of America the open-air lover will not find it easy to in­
dulge in the most ancient of all crimes and pastimes. Poisonous
plants burn his sweetheart’s buttocks, nameless insects sting his;
sharp items of the forest floor prick his knees, insects hers; and all
around there abides a sustained rustle of potential snakes— que
dis-je, of semi-extinct dragons!— while the crab-like seeds of
ferocious flowers cling, in a hideous green crust, to gartered black
sock and sloppy white sock alike.
I am exaggerating a little. One summer noon, just below
timberline, where heavenly-hued blossoms that I would fain call
larkspur crowded all along a purly mountain brook, we did find,
Lolita and I, a secluded romantic spot, a hundred feet or so above
the pass where we had left our car. The slope seemed untrodden.
A last panting pine was taking a well-earned breather on the rock
it had reached. A marmot whistled at us and withdrew. Beneath
the lap-robe I had spread for Lo, dry flowers crepitated softly.
Venus came and went. The jagged cliff crowning the upper talus
and a tangle of shrubs growing below us seemed to offer us pro­
tection from sun and man alike. Alas, I had not reckoned with a
faint side trail that curled up in cagey fashion among the shrubs
and rocks a few feet from us.
It was then that we came closer to detection than ever before,
and no wonder the experience curbed for ever my yearning for
rural amours.
I remember the operation was over, all over, and she was
weeping in my arms— a salutory storm of sobs after one of the
fits of moodiness that had become so frequent with her in the
course of that otherwise admirable year! I had just retracted some
silly promise she had forced me to make in a moment o f blind
impatient passion, and there she was sprawling and sobbing, and
pinching my caressing hand, and I was laughing happily, and

165

the atrocious, unbelievable, unbearable, and, I suspect, eternal
horror that I know now was still but a dot of blackness in the
blue of my bliss; and so we lay, when with one of those jolts that
have ended by knocking my poor heart out of its groove, I met
the unblinking dark eyes of two strange and beautiful children,
faunlet and nymphet, whom their identical flat dark hair and
bloodless cheeks proclaimed siblings if not twins. They stood
crouching and gaping at us, both in blue playsuits, blending
with the mountain blossoms. I plucked at the lap-robe for ,
desperate concealment— and within the same instant, something
that looked like a polka-dotted pushball among the undergrowth
a few paces away, went into a turning motion which was trans­
formed into the gradually rising figure of a stout lady with a ravenblack bob, who automatically added a wild lily to her bouquet,
while staring over her shoulder at us from behind her lovely
carved bluestone children.
Now that I have an altogether different mess on my con­
science, I know that I am a courageous man, but in those days
I was not aware o f it, and I remember being surprised by my
own coolness. With the quiet murmured order one gives a sweatstained distracted cringing trained animal even in the worst of
plights (what mad hope or hate makes the young beast’s flanks
pulsate, what black stars pierce the heart of the tamer!), I made
Lo get up, and we decorously walked, and then indecorously
scuttled down to the car. Behind it a nifty station wagon was
parked, and a handsome Assyrian with a little blue-black beard,
un monsieur trfc bien, in silk shirt and magenta slacks, presumably
the corpulent botanist’s husband, was gravely taking the picture
of a signboard giving the altitude o f the pass. It was well over
10,000 feet and I was quite out of breath; and with a scrunch
and a skid we drove off, Lo still struggling with her clothes and
swearing at me in language that I never dreamed little girls could
know, let alone use.
There were other unpleasant incidents. There was the movie
theatre once, for example. Lo at the time still had for the cinema
a veritable passion (it was to decline into tepid condescension
during her second high school year). W e took in, voluptuously and
indiscriminately, oh, I don’t know, one hundred and fifty or two
hundred programmes during that one year, and during some of
166

the denser periods of movie-going we saw many o f the news­
reels up to half-a-dozen times since the same weekly one went
with different main pictures and pursued us from town to town.
Her favourite kinds were, in this order: musicals, underworlders,
westerners. In the first, real singers and dancers had unreal stage
careers in an essentially grief-proof sphere of existence wherefrom
death and truth were banned, and where, at the end, whitehaired, dewy-eyed, technically deathless, the initially reluctant
father of a show-crazy girl always finished by applauding her
apotheosis on fabulous Broadway. The underworld was a world
apart: there, heroic newspapermen were tortured, telephone bills
ran to billions, and, in a robust atmosphere of incompetent
marksmanship, villains were chased through sewers and store­
houses by pathologically fearless cops (I was to give them less
exercise). Finally, there was the mahogany landscape, the florid­
faced, blue-eyed roughriders, the prim pretty schoolteacher
arriving in Roaring Gulch, the rearing horse, the spectacular
stampede, the pistol thrust through the shivered windowpane, the
stupendous fist fight, the crashing mountain o f dusty old-fashioned
furniture, the table used as a weapon, the timely somersault, the
pinned hand still groping for the dropped bowie knife, the grunt,
the sweet crash of fist against chin, the kick in the belly, the flying
tackle; and immediately after a plethora of pain that would have
hospitalized a Hercules (I should know by now), nothing to show
but the rather becoming bruise on the bronzed cheek of the
warmed-up hero embracing his gorgeous frontier bride. I remem­
ber one matinee in a small airless theatre crammed with children
and reeking with the hot breath of popcorn. The moon was
yellow above the neckerchiefed crooner, and his finger was on his
strumstring, and his foot was on a pine log, and I had innocently
encircled Lo’s shoulder and approached my jawbone to her
temple, when two harpies behind us started muttering the
queerest things— I do not know if I understood aright, but what
I thought I did, made me withdraw my gentle hand, and of
course the rest of the show was fog to me.
Another jolt I remember is connected with a little burg we
were traversing at night, during our return journey. Some twenty
miles earlier I had happened to tell her that the day school she
would attend at Beardsley was a rather high-class non-coeduca167

tional one, with no modern nonsense, whereupon Lo treated me
to one of those furious harangues of hers where entreaty and in­
sult, self-assertion and double talk, vicious vulgarity and childish
despair, were interwoven in an exasperating semblance of logic
which prompted a semblance of explanation from me. Enmeshed
in her wild words (swell chance . . . I ’d be a sap if I took your
opinion seriously.. . . Stinker.. . . You can’t boss m e . . . . I despise
you . . . and so forth), I drove through the slumbering town at a
fifty-mile-per-hour pace in continuance of my smooth highway
swoosh, and a twosome of patrolmen put their spotlight on the
car, and told me to pull over. I shushed Lo who was automatic­
ally raving on. The men peered at her and me with malevolent
curiosity. Suddenly all dimples, she beamed sweetly at them, as
she never did at my orchideous masculinity; for, in a sense, my
Lo was even more scared of the law than I— and when the kind
officers pardoned us and servilely we crawled on, her eyelids
closed and fluttered as she mimicked limp prostration.
A t this point I have a curious confession to make. You will
laugh— but really and truly I somehow never managed to find out
quite exactly what the legal situation was. I do not know it yet.
Oh, I have learned a few odds and ends. Alabama prohibits a
guardian from changing the ward’s residence without an order
of the court; Minnesota, to whom I take off my hat, provides
that when a relative assumes permanent care and custody of any
child under fourteen, the authority of a court does not come into
play. Query: is the stepfather of a gaspingly adorable pubescent
pet, a stepfather of only one month’s standing, a neurotic widower
of mature years and small but independent means, with the
parapets of Europe, a divorce and a few madhouses behind him,
is he to be considered a relative, and thus a natural guardian?
And if not, must I, and could I reasonably dare notify some
Welfare Board and file a petition (how do you file a petition?),
and have a court’s agent investigate meek, fishy me and dangerous
Dolores Haze? The many books on marriage, rape, adoption and
so on, that I guiltily consulted at the public libraries of big and
small towns, told me nothing beyond darkly insinuating that the
state is the super-guardian of minor children. Pilvin and Zapel, if
I remember their names right, in an impressive volume on the
legal side of marriage, completely ignored stepfathers with

168

motherless girls on their hands and knees. M y best friend, a
social service monograph (Chicago, 1936), which was dug out for
me at great pains from a dusty storage recess b y an innocent old
spinster, said, ‘There is no principle that every minor must have
a guardian; the court is passive and enters the fray only when
the child’s situation becomes conspicuously perilous.’ A guardian,
I concluded, was appointed only when he expressed his solemn
and formal desire; but months m ight elapse before he was given
notice to appear at a hearing and grow his pair of grey wings,
and in the meantime the fair daemon child was legally left to
her own devices which, after all, was the case of Dolores Haze.
Then came the hearing. A few questions from the bench, a few
reassuring answers from the attorney, a smile, a nod, a light
drizzle outside, and the appointment was made. And still X dared
not. Keep away, be a mouse, curl up in your hole. Courts became
extravagantly active only when there was some monetary ques­
tion involved: two greedy guardians, a robbed orphan, a third,
still greedier, party. But here all was in perfect order, an in­
ventory had been made, and her mother’s small property was
waiting untouched for Dolores Haze to grow up. The best policy
seemed to be to refrain from any application. O r would some busy­
body, some Humane Society, butt in if I kept too quiet?
Friend Farlow, who was a lawyer of sorts and ought to have
been able to give me some solid advice, was too much occupied
with Jean’s cancer to do anything more than what he had pro­
mised— namely, to look after Charlotte’s meagre estate while I
recovered very gradually from the shock o f her death. I had con­
ditioned him into believing Dolores was m y natural child, and so
could not expect him to bother his head about the situation. I am,
as the reader must have gathered by now, a poor businessman;
but neither ignorance nor indolence should have prevented me
from seeking professional advice elsewhere. W hat stopped me
was the awful feeling that if I meddled with fate in any way and
tried to rationalize her fantastic gift, that gift would be snatched
away like that palace on the mountain top in the Oriental tale
which vanished whenever a prospective owner asked its cus­
todian how come a strip of sunset sky was clearly visible from afar
between black rock and foundation.
I decided that at Beardsley (the site of Beardsley College for
169

Women) I would have access to works of reference that I had
not yet been able to study, such as Woerner’s Treatise cOn the
American Law of Guardianship5 and certain United States
Children’s Bureau Publications. I also decided that anything was
better for Lo than the demoralizing idleness in which she lived.
I could persuade her to do so many things— their list might
stupefy a professional educator; but no matter how I pleaded or
stormed, I could never make her read any other books than the
so-called comic books or stories in magazines for American
females. Any literature a peg higher smacked to her of school, and
though theoretically willing to enjoy A Girl of the Limberlost or the
Arabian Nights, or Little Women, she was quite sure she would not
fritter away her ‘vacation5 on such highbrow reading matter.
I now think it was a great mistake to move east again and have
her go to that private school in Beardsley, instead of somehow
scrambling across the Mexican border while the scrambling was
good so as to lie low for a couple of years in subtropical bliss until
I could safely marry my little Creole; for I must confess that de­
pending on the condition of my glands and ganglia, I could
switch in the course of the same day from one pole of insanity to
the other— from the thought that around 1950 I would have to
get rid somehow of a difficult adolescent whose magic nymphage
had evaporated— to the thought that with patience and luck X
might have her produce eventually a nymphet with my blood
in her exquisite veins, a Lolita the Second, who would be eight
or nine around i960, when I would still be dans la force de Vdge;
indeed, the telescopy of my mind, or un-mind, was strong enough
to distinguish in the remoteness of time a vieillard encore vert— or
was it green rot?— bizarre, tender, salivating D r Humbert, prac­
tising on supremely lovely Lolita the Third the art of being a
granddad.
In the days of that wild journey of ours, I doubted not that as
father of Lolita the First I was a ridiculous failure. I did my best;
I read and reread a book with the unintentionally biblical title
Know Tour Own Daughter, which I got at the same store where I
bought Lo, for her thirteenth birthday, a de luxe volume with
commercially ‘beautiful5 illustrations, of Andersen’s The Little
Mermaid. But even at our very best moments, when we sat reading
on a rainy day (Lo’s glance skipping from the window to her

wrist watch and back again), or had a quiet hearty meal in a
crowded diner, or played a childish game of cards, or went shop­
ping, or silently stared, with other motorists and their children, at
some smashed, blood-bespattered car with a young woman’s shoe
in the ditch (Lo, as we drove on: ‘That was the exact type of
moccasin I was trying to describe to that jerk in the store’); on all
those random occasions, I seemed to myself as implausible a father
as she seemed to be a daughter. Was, perhaps, guilty locomotion
instrumental in vitiating our powers of impersonation? W ould
improvement be forthcoming with a fixed domicile and a routine
schoolgirl’s day?
In my choice of Beardsley I was guided not only by the fact o f
there being a comparatively sedate school for girls located there,
but also by the presence of the women’s college. In my desire to
get myself case, to attach myself somehow to some patterned
surface which my stripes would blend with, I thought of a man
I knew in the department of French at Beardsley College; he was
good enough to use my textbook in his classes and had attempted
to get me over once to deliver a lecture. I had no intention o f
doing so, since, as I have once remarked in the course o f these
confessions, there are few physiques I loathe more than the heavy
low-slung pelvis, thick calves and deplorable complexion of the
average co-ed (in whom I see, maybe, the coffin of coarse female
flesh within which my nymphets are buried alive); but I did
crave for a label, a background, and a simulacrum, and, as pre­
sently will become clear, there was a reason, a rather zany reason,
why old Gaston Godin’s company would be particularly safe.
Finally, there was the money question. M y income was cracking
under the strain of our joy-ride. True, I clung to the cheaper
motor courts; but every now and then, there would be a loud
hotel de luxe, or a pretentious dude ranch, to mutilate our
budget; staggering sums, moreover, were expended on sightseeing
and Lo’s clothes, and the old Haze bus, although a still vigorous
and very devoted machine, necessitated numerous minor and major
repairs. In one of our strip maps that has happened to survive
among the papers which the authorities have so kindly allowed
me to use for die purpose of writing my statement, I find some
jottings that help me compute the following. During that ex­
travagant year 1947-8, August to August, lodgings and food cost

us around 5,500 dollars; gas, oil and repairs, 1,234, and various
extras almost as much; so that during about 150 days of actual
motion (we covered about 27,000 miles!) plus some 200 days of
interpolated standstills, this modest rentier spent around 8,000
dollars, or better say 10,000 because, unpractical as I am, I have
surely forgotten a number of items.
And so we rolled East, I more devastated than braced with the
satisfaction of my passion, and she glowing with health, her bi-iliac
garland still as brief as a lad’s, although she had added two inches
to her stature and eight pounds to her weight. We had been
everywhere. We had really seen nothing. And I catch myself
thinking today that our long journey had only defiled with a
sinuous trail of slime the lovely, trustful, dreamy, enormous
country that by then, in retrospect, was no more to us than a
collection of dog-eared maps, ruined tour books, old tyres, and
her sobs in the night— every night, every night— the moment I
feigned sleep.

when , through decorations of light and shade, we drove up

to 14 Thayer Street, a grave little lad met us with the keys and
a note from Gaston who had rented the house for us. M y Lo,
without granting her new surroundings one glance, unseeingly
turned on the radio to which instinct led her and lay down on the
living-room sofa with a batch of old magazines which in the same
precise and blind manner she landed by dipping her hand into
the nether anatomy of a lamp table.
I really did not mind where to dwell provided I could lock my
Lolita up somewhere; but I had, I suppose, in the course of my
correspondence with vague Gaston, vaguely visualized a house of
ivied brick. Actually the place bore a dejected resemblance to the

Haze home (a mere 400 miles distant): it was the same sort of
dull grey frame affair with a shingled roof and dull green drill
awnings; and the rooms, though smaller and furnished in a more
consistent plush-and-plate style, were arranged in much the same
order. My study turned out to be, however, a much larger room,
lined from floor to ceiling with some two thousand books on
chemistry which my landlord (on sabbatical leave for the time
being) taught at Beardsley College.
I had hoped Beardsley School for girls, an expensive day school,
with lunch thrown in and a glamorous gymnasium, would,- while
cultivating all those young bodies, provide some formal education
for their minds as well. Gaston Godin, who was seldom right in
his judgment of American habitus, had warned me that the in­
stitution might turn out to be one of those where girls are taught,
as he put it with a foreigner’s love for such things: ‘not to spell
very well, but to smell very well’. I don’t think they achieved
even that.
At my first interview with headmistress Pratt, she approved o f
my child’s ‘nice blue eyes’ (blue! Lolita!) and of my own friend­
ship with that ‘French genius’ (a genius! Gaston!)— and then,
having turned Dolly over to a Miss Cormorant, she wrinkled her
brow in a kind of recueillement and said:
‘We are not so much concerned, M r Humbird, with having our
students become bookworms or be able to reel off all the capitals
of Europe which nobody knows anyway, or learn by heart the
dates of forgotten battles. W hat we are concerned .with is the
adjustment of the child to group life. This is why we stress the
four D ’s: Dramatics, Dance, Debating and Dating. W e are con­
fronted by certain facts. Your delightful Dolly will presently enter
an age group where dates, dating, date dress, date book, date
etiquette, mean as much to her as, say, business, business con­
nections, business success, mean to you, or as much as [smiling]
the happiness of my girls means to me. Dorothy Humbird is
already involved in a whole system of social life which consists,
whether we like it or not, of hot-dog stands, corner drugstores,
malts and cokes, movies, square-dancing, blanket parties on
beaches, and even hair-fixing parties! Naturally at Beardsley
School we disapprove of some of these activities; and we rechannel
others into more constructive directions. But we do try to turn
i nns—

our backs on the fog and squarely face the sunshine. To put it
briefly, while adopting certain teaching techniques, we are more
interested in communication than in composition. That is, with
due respect to Shakespeare and others, we want our girls to com­
municate freely with the live world around them rather than plunge
into musty old books. We are still groping perhaps, but we grope
intelligently, like a gynecologist feeling a tumour. We think,
Dr Humburg, in organismal and organizational terms. We have
done away with the mass of irrelevant topics that have tradition­
ally been presented to young girls, leaving no place, in former
days, for the knowledges and the skills, and the attitudes they will
need in managing their lives and— as the cynic might add— the
lives of their husbands. M r Humberson, let us put it this way: the
position of a star is important, but the most practical spot for an
icebox in the kitchen may be even more important to the budding
housewife. You say that all you expect a child to obtain from
school is a sound education. But what do we mean by education?
In the old days it was in the main a verbal phenomenon; I mean,
you could have a child learn by heart a good encyclopaedia and
he or she would know as much as or more than a school could
offer. Dr Hummer, do you realize that for the modern pre­
adolescent child, medieval dates are of less vital value than week­
end ones [twinkle]?— to repeat a pun that I heard the Beardsley
college psycho-analyst permit herself the other day. W e live not
only in a world of thoughts, but also in a world of things. Words
without experience are meaningless. What on earth can Dorothy
Hummerson care for Greece and the Orient with their harems
and slaves?’
This programme rather appalled me, but I spoke to two in­
telligent ladies who had been connected with the school, and they
affirmed that the girls did quite a bit of sound reading and that
the ‘communication’ line was more or less ballyhoo aimed at
giving old-fashioned Beardsley School a financially remunerative
modern touch, though actually it remained as prim as a prawn.
Another reason attracting me to that particular school may
seem funny to some readers, but it was very important to me, for
that is the way I am made. Across our street, exactly in front of
our house, there was, I noticed, a gap of weedy wasteland, with
some colourful bushes and a pile of bricks and a few scattered

planks, and the foam of shabby mauve and chrome autumn road­
side flowers; and through that gap you could see a shimmery
section of School Road, running parallel to our Thayer Street,
and immediately beyond that, the playground of the school.
Apart from the psychological comfort this general arrangement
should afford me by keeping Dolly’s day adjacent to mine, I im ­
mediately foresaw the pleasure I would have in distinguishing
from my study-bedroom, by means of powerful binoculars, the
statistically inevitable percentage of nymphets among the other
girl children playing around Dolly during recess; unfortunately,
on the very first day of school, workmen arrived and put up a fence
some way down the gap, and in no time a construction of tawny
wood maliciously arose beyond that fence utterly blocking m y
magic vista; and as soon as they had erected a sufficient amount
of material to spoil everything, those absurd builders suspended
their work and never appeared again.

5
in a street galled Thayer Street, in the residential green,
fawn, and golden of a mellow academic townlet, one was bound
to have a few amiable fine-dayers yelping at you. I prided myself
on the exact temperature of my relations with them: never rude,
always aloof. M y west-door neighbour, who might have been a
businessman or a college teacher, or both, would speak to me
once in a while as he barbered some late garden blooms or
watered his car, or, at a later date, defrosted his driveway (I don’t
mind if these verbs are all wrong), but my brief grunts, just suffi­
ciently articulate to sound like conventional assents or interroga­
tive pause-fillers, precluded any evolution toward chumminess.
O f tire two houses flanking the bit of scrubby waste opposite, one
was closed, and the other contained two professors o f English,

tweedy and short-haired Miss Lester and fadedly feminine Miss
Fabian, whose only subject of brief sidewalk conversation with me
was (God bless their tact!) the young loveliness of my daughter
and the naive charm of Gaston Godin. M y east-door neighbour
was by far the most dangerous one, a sharp-nosed stock character
whose late brother had been attached to the College as Super­
intendent of Buildings and Grounds. I remember her waylaying
Dolly, while I stood at the living-room window, feverishly await­
ing my darling’s return from school. The odious spinster, trying
to conceal her morbid inquisitiveness under a mask of dulcet
goodwill, stood leaning on her slim umbrella (the sleet had just
stopped, a cold wet sun had sidled out), and Dolly, her brown
coat open despite the raw weather, her structural heap of books
pressed against her stomach, her knees showing pink above her
clumsy wellingtons, a sheepish frightened little smile flitting over
and off her snub-nosed face, which— owing perhaps to the pale
wintry light— looked almost plain, in a rustic, German, magdleinlike way, as she stood there and dealt with Miss East’s questions
‘And where is your mother, my dear? And what is your poor
father’s occupation? And where did you live before?’ Another
time the loathsome creature accosted me with a welcoming whine
— but I evaded her; and a few days later there came from her a
note in a blue-margined envelope, a nice mixture of poison and
treacle, suggesting Dolly come over on a Sunday and curl up in a
chair to look through the ‘loads of beautiful books my dear mother
gave me when I was a child, instead of having the radio on at full
blast till ail hours of the night’ .
I had also to be careful in regard to a Mrs Holigan, a char­
woman and cook of sorts whom I had inherited with the vacuum
cleaner from the previous tenants. Dolly got lunch at school, so
that this was no trouble, and I had become adept at providing
her with a big breakfast and warming up the dinner that Mrs
Holigan prepared before leaving. That kindly and harmless
woman had, thank God, a rather bleary eye that missed details,
and I had become a great expert in bedmaking; but still I was
continuously obsessed by the feeling that some fatal stain had been
left somewhere, or that, on the rare occasions where Holigan’s
presence happened to coincide with L o ’s, simple Lo might suc­
cumb to buxom sympathy in the course of a cosy kitchen chat.

176

X often felt we lived in a lighted house of glass, and that any
moment some thin-lipped parchment face would peer through a
carelessly unshaded window to obtain a free glimpse of things
that the most jaded voyeur would have paid a small fortune to
watch.

6
a word about Gaston Godin. The main reason why I enjoyed

_or at least tolerated with relief— his company was the spell of
absolute security that his ample person cast on my secret. Not
that he knew it; I had no special reason to confide in him, and
he was much too self-centred and abstract to notice or suspect
anything that might lead to a frank question on his part and a
frank answer on mine. He spoke well of me to Beardsleyans, he
was my good herald. Had he discovered mes gouts and Lolita’s
status, it would have interested him only in so far as throwing
some light on the simplicity of my attitude toward him, which
attitude was as free of polite strain as it was of ribald allusions;
for despite his colourless mind and dim memory, he was perhaps
aware that I knew more about him than the burghers of Beardsley
did. He was a flabby, dough-faced, melancholy bachelor tapering
upward to a pair of narrow, not quite level shoulders and a conical
pear-head which had sleek black hair on one side and only a few
plastered wisps on the other. But the lower part of his body was
enormous, and he ambulated with a curious elephantine stealth
by means of phenomenally stout legs. He always wore black, even
his tie was black; he seldom bathed; his English was a burlesque.
And, nonetheless, everybody considered him to be a supremely
lovable, lovably freakish fellow! Neighbours pampered him; he
knew by name all the small boys in our vicinity (he lived a few
blocks away from me) and had some of them clean his sidewalk
and burn leaves in his backyard, and bring wood from his shed,

and even perform simple chores about the house, and he would
feed them fancy chocolates, with real liqueurs inside— in the
privacy of an orientally furnished den in his basement, with
amusing daggers and pistols arrayed on the mouldy, rug-adorned
walls among the camouflaged hot-water pipes. Upstairs he had a
studio— he painted a little, the old fraud. He had decorated its
sloping wall (it was really not more than a garret) with large
photographs of pensive Andre Gide, Tchaikovsky, Norman
Douglas, two other well-known English writers, Nijinsky (all
thighs and fig-leaves), Harold D. Doublename (a misty-eyed
left-wing professor at a Midwestern university) and Marcel
Proust, A ll these poor people seemed about to fall on you from
their inclined plane. He had also an album with snapshots of all
the Jackies and Dickies of the neighbourhood, and when I hap­
pened to thumb through it and make some casual remark, Gaston
would purse his fat lips and murmur with a wistful pout ‘ Oui, ils
sont gentils\ His brown eyes would roam around the various senti­
mental and artistic bric-a-brac present, and his own banal toiles
(the conventionally primitive eyes, sliced guitars, blue nipples
and geometrical designs of the day), and with a vague gesture
toward a painted wooden bowl or veined vase, he would say
‘Prenez done urn de ces pokes. La bonne dame d’enface rrfen ojfre plus
queje rCen peux savoured. Or: fMississe Taille Lore vient de me donner
ces dahlias, belles jleurs que fexecre\ (Sombre, sad, full of worldweariness.)
For obvious reasons, I preferred my house to his for the games
of chess we had two or three times weekly. He looked like some
old battered idol as he sat with his pudgy hands in his lap and
stared at the board as if it were a corpse. Wheezing, he would
meditate for ten minutes— then make a losing move. O r the good
man, after even more thought, might utter: An roi! with a slow
old-dog woof that had a gargling sound at the back of it which
made his jowls wabble; and then he would lift his circumflex
eyebrows with a deep sigh as I pointed out to him that he was in
check himself.
Sometimes, from where we sat in my cold study I could hear
Lo’s bare feet practising dance techniques in the living room
downstairs; but Gaston’s outgoing senses were comfortably dulled,
and he remained unaware of those naked rhythms— and-one,
178

and-two, and-one, and-two, weight transferred on a straight right
leg, leg up and out to the side, and-one, and-two, and only when
she started jumping, opening her legs at the height of the jump,
and flexing one leg, and extending the other, and flying, and
landing on her toes— only then did my pale, pompous, morose
opponent rub his head or cheek as if confusing those distant thuds
with the awful stabs of my formidable Queen.
Sometimes Lola would slouch in while we pondered the board
— and it was every time a treat to see Gaston, his elephant eye
still fixed on his pieces, ceremoniously rise to shake hands with
her, and forthwith release her limp fingers, and without looking
once at her, descend again into his chair to topple into the trap
I had laid for him. One day around Christmas, after I had not
seen him for a fortnight or so, he asked me ‘Et toutes vos fiUettes,
elles vont lien?’ from which it became evident to me that he had
multiplied my unique Lolita by the number of sartorial categories
his downcast moody eye had glimpsed during a whole series o f
her appearances: blue jeans, a skirt, shorts, a quilted robe.
I am loath to dwell so long on the poor fellow (sadly enough,
a year later, during a voyage to Europe, from which he did not
return, he got involved in a sale hisioire, in Naples of all places!).
I would have hardly alluded to him at all had not his Beardsley
existence had such a queer bearing on my case. I need him for
my defence. There he was devoid of any talent whatsoever, a
mediocre teacher, a worthless scholar, a glum repulsive fat old
invert, highly contemptuous of the American way of life, trium­
phantly ignorant of the English language— there he was in
priggish New England, crooned over by the old and caressed by
the young— oh, having a grand time and fooling everybody; and
here was I.

7
i am now faced with the distasteful task of recording a definite
drop in Lolita’s morals. If her share in the ardours she kindled
had never amounted to much, neither had pure lucre ever come

*79

to the fore. But I was weak, I was not wise, my schoolgirl nymphet
had me in thrall. With the human element dwindling, the
passion, the tenderness, and the torture only increased; and of this
she took advantage.
Her weekly allowance, paid to her under condition she fulfil her
basic obligations, was twenty-one cents at the start of the Beards­
ley era— and went up to one dollar five before its end. This was a
more than generous arrangement seeing she constantly received
from me all kinds of small presents and had for the asking any
sweetmeat or movie under the moon— although, of course, I
might fondly demand an additional kiss, or even a whole collec­
tion of assorted caresses, when I knew she coveted very badly
some item of juvenile amusement. She was, however, not easy to
deal with. Only very listlessly did she earn her three pennies— or
three nickels— per day; and she proved to be a cruel negotiator
whenever it was in her power to deny me certain life-wrecking,
strange, slow paradisal philtres without which I could not live
more than a few days in a row, and which, because of the very
nature of love’s languor, I could not obtain by force. Knowing
the magic and might of her own soft mouth, she managed— during
one school year!— to raise the bonus of a fancy embrace to three,
and even four bucks, O Reader! Laugh not, as you imagine me,
on the very rack of joy noisily emitting dimes and quarters, and
great big silver dollars like some sonorous, jingly and wholly
demented machine vomiting riches; and in the margin of that
leaping epilepsy she would firmly clutch a handful of coins in her
little fist, which, anyway, I used to pry open afterwards unless
she gave me the slip, scrambling away to hide her loot. And just
as every other day I would cruise all around the school area and
on comatose feet visit drugstores, and peer into foggy lanes, and
listen to receding girl laughter in between my heart throbs and
the falling leaves, so every now and then I would burgle her room
and scrutinize torn papers in the wastebasket with the painted
roses, and look under the pillow of the virginal bed I had just
made myself. Once I found eight one-dollar notes in one of her
books (fittingly— Treasure Island), and once a hole in the wall
behind Whistler’s ‘Mother’ yielded as much as twenty-four
dollars and some change— say, twenty-four sixty— which I quietly
removed, upon which, next day, she accused, to my face, honest
180

Mrs Holigan of being a filthy thief. Eventually, she lived up to
her IQ b y finding a safer hoarding place which I never discovered;
but by that time I had brought prices down drastically by having
her earn the hard and nauseous way permission to participate in
the school’s theatrical programme; because what I feared most
was not that she might ruin me, but that she might accumulate
sufficient cash to run away. I believe the poor fierce-eyed child
figured out that with a mere fifty dollars in her purse she might
somehow reach Broadway or Hollywood— or the foul kitchen of
a diner (Help Wanted) in a dismal ex-prairie state, with the wind
blowing, and the stars blinking, and the cars, and the bars, and
the barmen, and everything soiled, torn, dead.

8
i did my best , your Honour, to tackle the problem o f boys. Oh,
I used even to read in the Beardsley Star a so-called Column for
Teens, to find out how to behave!
A word to fathers. Don’t frighten away daughter’s friend.
Maybe it is a bit hard for you to realize that now the boys are
finding her attractive. To you she is still a little girl. To the
boys she’s charming and fun, lovely and gay. They like her.
Today you clinch big deals in an executive’s office, but yester­
day you were just highschool Jim carrying Jane’s school books.
Remember? Don’t you want your daughter, now that her turn
has come, to be happy in the admiration and company of boys
she likes? Don’t you want them to have wholesome fun together?
Wholesome fun? Good Lord!
Why not treat the young fellows as guests in your house?
Why not make conversation with them? Draw them out, make
them laugh and feel at ease?

Welcome, fellow, to this bordello.
I f she breaks the rules don’t explode out loud in front of her
partner in crime. Let her take the brunt of your displeasure in
private. And stop making the boys feel she’s the daughter of an
old ogre.
First o f all, the old ogre drew up a list under ‘absolutely for­
bidden’ and another under ‘reluctantly allowed’. Absolutely for­
bidden were dates, single or double or triple— the next step being,
of course, mass orgy. She might visit a candy bar with her girl
friends, and there giggle-chat with occasional young males, while
I waited in the car at a discreet distance; and I promised her
that if her group were invited by a socially accceptable group in
Butler’s Academy for Boys for their annual ball (heavily chaper­
oned, of course), I might consider the question whether a girl of
fourteen can don her first ‘formal’ (a kind of gown that makes
thin-armed teenagers look like flamingoes). Moreover, I promised
her to throw a party at our house to which she would be allowed
to invite her prettier girl friends and the nicer boys she would
have met by that time at the Butler dance. But I was quite
positive that as long as my regime lasted she would never, never
be permitted to go with a youngster in rut to a movie, or neck
in a car, or go to boy-girl parties at the houses of schoolmates,
or indulge out of my earshot in boy-girl telephone conversations,
even i f ‘only discussing his relations with a friend of mine’ .
Lo was enraged by all this— called me a lousy crook and worse
— and I would probably have lost my temper had I not soon dis­
covered, to my sweetest relief, that what really angered her was
my depriving her not of a specific satisfaction but of a general
right. I was impinging, you see, on the conventional programme,
the stock pastimes, the ‘things that ai'e done’, the routine of
youth; for there is nothing more conservative than a child, es­
pecially a girl-child, be she the most auburn and russet, the most
mythopoeic nymphet in October’s orchard-haze.
Do not misunderstand me. I cannot be absolutely certain that
in the course of the winter she did not manage to have, in a casual
way, improper contact with unknown young fellows; of course,
no matter how closely I controlled her leisure, there would con­
stantly occur unaccounted-for time leaks with over-elaborate

explanations to stop them up in retrospect; of course, my jealousy
would constantly catch its jagged claw in the fine fabrics of
nymphet falsity; but I did definitely feel— and can now vouchsafe
for the accuracy of my feeling— that there was no reason for
serious alarm. I felt that way not because I never once discovered
any palpable hard young throat to crush among the masculine
mutes that flickered somewhere in the background; but because
it was to me £overwhelmingly obvious’ (a favourite expression
with my Aunt Sybil) that all varieties of high school boys— from
the perspiring nincompoop whom ‘holding hands’ thrills, to the
self-sufficient rapist with pustules and a souped-up car— equally
bored my sophisticated young mistress. ‘A ll this noise about boys
gags me’, she had scrawled on the inside of a schoolbook, and
underneath, in Mona’s hand (Mona is due any minute now),
there was the sly quip: ‘What about Rigger?’ (due too).
Faceless, then, are the chappies I happened to see in her
company. There was, for instance Red Sweater who one day, the
day we had the first snow— saw her home; from the parlour
window I observed them talking near our porch. She wore her
first cloth coat with a fur collar; there was a small brown cap on
my favourite hair-do— the fringe in front and the swirl at the side
and the natural curls at the back— and her damp-dark moccasins
and white socks were more sloppy than ever. She pressed as usual
her books to her chest while speaking or listening, and her feet
gestured all the time: she would stand on her left instep with her
right toe, remove it backward, cross her feet, rock slightly, sketch
a few steps, and then start the series all over again. There was
Windbreaker who talked to her in front of a restaurant one
Sunday afternoon while his mother and sister attempted to walk
me away for a chat; I dragged along and looked back at my only
love. She had developed more than one conventional mannerism,
such as the polite adolescent way of showing one is literally
‘doubled up’ with laughter by inclining one’s head, and so (as she
sensed my call), still feigning helpless merriment, she walked
backwards a couple of steps, and then faced about, and walked
toward me with a fading smile. O n the other hand, I greatly liked
— perhaps because it reminded me of her first unforgettable con­
fession— her trick of sighing ‘oh dear!’ in humorous wistful sub­
mission to fate, or emitting a long ‘no-o’ in a deep almost growling
183

undertone when the blow of fate had actually fallen. Above all—
since we are speaking of movement and youth— I liked to see her
spinning up and down Thayer Street on her beautiful young
bicycle: rising on the pedals to work on them lustily, then sinking
back in a languid posture while the speed wore itself off; and
then she would stop at our mailbox and, still astride, would flip
through a magazine she found there, and put it back, and press
her tongue .to one side of her upperlip and push off with her foot,
and again sprint through pale shade and sun.
On the whole she seemed to me better adapted to her sur­
roundings than I had hoped she would be when considering my
spoiled slave-child and the bangles of demeanour she naively
affected the winter before in California. Although I could never
get used to the constant state of anxiety in which the guilty, the
great, the tenderhearted live, I felt I was doing my best in the way
of mimicry. As I lay on my narrow studio bed after a session of
adoration and despair in Lolita’s cold bedroom, I used to review
the concluded day by checking my own image as it prowled
rather than passed before the mind’s red eye. I watched dark'Wd-handsome, not un-Celtic, probably high-church, possibly
very high-church, Dr Humbert see his daughter off to school. I
watched him greet with his slow smile and pleasantly arched thick
black ad-eyebrows good Mrs Holigan, who smelled of the plague
(and would head, I knew, for master’s gin at the first oppor­
tunity). With M r West, retired executioner or writer of religious
tracts— who cared?— I saw neighbour what’s his name, I think
they are French or Swiss, meditate in his frank-windowed study
. over a typewriter, rather gaunt-profiled, an almost Hitlerian
' cowlick on his pale brow. Weekends, wearing well-tailored over­
coat and brown gloves, Professor H. might be seen with his
. daughter strolling to Walton Inn (famous for its violet-ribboned
china bunnies and chocolate boxes among which you sit and wait
for a ‘table for two’ still filthy with your predecessor’s crumbs).
Seen on weekdays, around i p.m., saluting with dignity Arguseyed East while manoeuvring the car out of the garage and around
the damned evergreens, and down on to the slippery road. Raising
a cold eye from book to clock in the positively sultry Beardsley
College library, among bulky young women caught and petrified
in the overflow of human knowledge. Walking across the campus
184

with the college clergyman, the Rev. Rigger (who also taught
Bible at Beardsley School). ‘Somebody told me her mother was
a celebrated actress killed in an aeroplane accident. Oh? M y
mistake, I presume. Is that so? I see. How sad.3 (Sublimating her
mother, eh?) Slowly pushing my little pram through the labyrinth
of the supermarket, in the wake of Professor W., also a slowmoving and gentle widower with the eyes of a goat. Shovelling
the snow in my shirt-sleeves, a voluminous black and white
muffler around my neck. Following with no show of rapacious
haste (even taking time to wipe my feet on the mat) m y school­
girl daughter into the house. Taking Dolly to the dentist— pretty
nurse beaming at her— old magazines— ne montrez pas ms zhambes.
At dinner with Dolly in town, M r Edgar H. Humbert was seen
eating his steak in the continental knife-and-fork manner. Enjoy­
ing, in duplicate, a concert: two marble-faced, becalmed French­
men sitting side by side, with Monsieur H. H .’s musical little girl
on her father’s right, and the musical little boy of Professor YV.
(father spending a hygienic evening in Providence) on Monsieur
G. G.’s left. Opening the garage, a square o f light that engulfs,,
the car and is extinguished. Brightly pyjamaed, jerking down the
window shade in Dolly’s bedroom. Saturday morning, unseen,
solemnly weighing the winter-bleached lassie in the bathroom.
Seen and heard Sunday morning, no churchgoer after all, saying
don’t be too late, to Dolly who is bound for the covered court.
Letting in a queerly observant schoolmate of Dolly’s: ‘First time
I’ve seen a man wearing a smoking jacket, sir— except in movies,
of course.5

9
her girl friends , whom, I had looked forward to meet, proved
on the whole disappointing. There was O pal Something, and
Linda Hall, and Ay^s Chapman, and Eva Rosen, and Mona Dahl

185

(save one, all these names are approximations, of course). Opal
was a bashful, formless, bespectacled, bepimpled creature who
doted on Dolly, who bullied her. W ith Linda Hall the school
tennis champion, Dolly played singles at least twice a week: X
suspect Linda was a true nymphet, but for some unknown reason
she did not come— was perhaps not allowed to come— to our
house; so I recall her only as a flash of natural sunshine on an
indoor court. O f the rest, none had any claims to nymphetry
except Eva Rosen. Avis was a plump lateral child with hairy legs,
while Mona, though handsome in a coarse sensual way and only
a year older than my aging mistress, had obviously long ceased to
be a nymphet, if she ever had been one. Eva Rosen, a displaced
little person from France, was on the other hand a good example
of a not strikingly beautiful child revealing to the perspicacious
amateur some of the basic elements of nymphet charm, such as a
perfect pubescent figure and lingering eyes and high cheek-bones.
Her glossy copper hair had Lolita’s silkiness, and the features of
her delicate milky-white face with pink lips and silverfish eye­
lashes were less foxy than those of her likes— the great clan of
intra-racial redheads; nor did she sport their green uniform but
wore, as I remember her, a lot of black or cherry dark— a very
smart black pullover, for instance, and high-heeled black shoes,
and garnet-red fingernail polish. I spoke French to her (much to
Lo’s disgust). The child’s tonalities were still admirably pure, but
for school words and play words she resorted to current American
and then a slight Brooklyn accent would crop up in her speech,
which was amusing in a little Parisian who went to a select New
England school with phoney British aspirations. Unfortunately,
despite ‘that French kid’s uncle’ being ‘a millionaire’, Lo dropped
Eva for some reason before I had had time to enjoy in my modest
way her fragrant presence in the Humbert open house. The
reader knows what importance I attached to having a bevy of
page girls, consolation prize nymphets, around my Lolita. For a
while, I endeavoured to interest my senses in Mona Dahl who
was a good deal around, especially during the spring term when
Lo and she got so enthusiastic about dramatics. I have often
wondered what secrets outrageously treacherous Dolores Haze
had imparted to Mona while blurting out to me by urgent and
well-paid request various really incredible details concerning an
%

186

affair that Mona had had with a marine at the seaside- It was
characteristic of Lo that she chose for her closest chum that
elegant, cold, lascivious, experienced young female whom I once
heard (misheard, Lo swore) cheerfully say in the hallway to Lo—
who had remarked that her (Lo’s) sweater was of virgin wool:
‘The only thing about you that is, lciddo. . . .’ She had a curiously
husky voice, artificially waved dull dark hair, earrings, amberbrown prominent eyes and luscious lips. Lo said teachers had
remonstrated with her on her loading herself with so much
costume jewellery. Her hands trembled. She was burdened with
a 150 IQ,- And I also knew she had a tremendous chocolatebrown mole on her womanish back which I inspected the night
Lo and she had worn low-cut pastel-coloured, vaporous dresses for
adance at the Butler Academy.
I am anticipating a little, but I cannot help running my memory
all over the keyboard of that school year. In meeting my attempts
to find out what kind of boys Lo knew, Miss Dahl was elegantly
evasive. Lo who had gone to play tennis at Linda’s country club
had telephoned she might be a full half hour late, and so, would
I entertain Mona who was coming to practise with her a scene
from The Taming of the Shrew. Using all the modulations, all the
allure of manner and voice she was capable of and staring at me
with perhaps— could I be mistaken?— a faint gleam of crystalline
irony, beautiful Mona replied: ‘Well, sir, the fact is Dolly is not
much concerned with mere boys. Fact is, we are rivals. She and
I have a crush on the Reverend Rigger.’ (This was a joke— I have
already mentioned that gloomy giant of a man, with the jaw of
a horse: he was to bore me to near murder with his impressions
of Switzerland at a tea party for parents that I am unable to
place correctly in terms of time.)
How had the ball been? Oh, it had been a riot. A what? A
panic. Terrific, in a word. Had Lo danced a lot? Oh, not a fright­
ful lot, just as much as she could stand. W hat did she, languorous
Mona, think of Lo? Sir? Did she think Lo was doing well at
school? Gosh, she certainly was quite a kid. But her general be­
haviour was----- ? Oh, she was a swell kid. But still? ‘Oh, she’s a
doll,’ concluded Mona, and sighed abruptly, and picked up a book
that happened to lie at hand, and with a change of expression,
falsely furrowing her brow, inquired: ‘Do tell me about Ball
187

Zack, sir. Is he really that good?’ She moved up so close to my
chair that I made out through lotions and creams her un­
interesting skin scent. A sudden odd thought stabbed me: was my
Lo playing the pimp? I f so, she had found the wrong substitute.
Avoiding Mona’s cool gaze, I talked literature for a minute. Then
Dolly arrived— and slit her pale eyes at us. I left the two friends
to their own devices. One of the latticed squares in a small cob­
webby casement window at the turn of the staircase was glazed
with ruby, and that raw wound among the unstained rectangles
and its asymmetrical position— a knight’s move from the top—
always strangely disturbed me.

1 0

sometimes . . . . gome on, how often exactly, Bert? Can you re­

call four, five, more such occasions? O r would no human heart
have survived two or three? Sometimes (I have nothing to say in
reply to your question), while Lolita would be haphazardly pre­
paring her homework, sucking a pencil, lolling sideways in an easy
chair with both legs over its arm, I would shed all my pedagogic
restraint, dismiss all our quarrels, forget all my masculine pride—
and literally crawl on my knees to your chair, my Lolita! You
would give me one look— a grey furry question mark of a look:
‘Oh no, not again5 (incredulity, exasperation); for you never
deigned to believe that I could, without any specific designs, ever
crave to bury my face in your plaid skirt, my darling! The fragility
of those bare arms of yours— how I longed to enfold them, all your
four limpid lovely limbs, a folded colt, and take your head be­
tween my unworthy hands, and pull the temple-skin back on both
sides, and kiss your chinesed eyes, and^—‘Tulease, leave me alone,
will you5, you would say, ‘for Christ’s sake leave me alone5. And
'

188

I would get up from the floor while you looked on, your face
deliberately twitching in imitation of my tic nerveux. But never
mind, never mind, I am only a brute, never mind, let us go on
with my miserable story.

1 1

one Mo n d a y f o r e n o o n , in December I think, Pratt asked me
to come over for a talk. Dolly’s last report had been poor, I knew.
But instead of contenting myself with some such plausible explana­
tion of this summons, I imagined all sorts of horrors, and had to
fortify myself with a pint of my ‘pin’ before I could face the inter­
view. Slowly, all Adam’s apple and heart, I went up the steps of
the scaffold.
A huge woman, grey-haired, frowsy, with a broad flat nose and
small eyes behind black-rimmed glasses— ‘Sit down,5 she said,
pointing to an informal and humiliating hassock, while she
perched with ponderous spryness on the arm of an oak chair. For
a moment or two, she peered at me with smiling curiosity. She
had done it at our first meeting, I recalled, but I could afford then
to scowl back. Her eye left me. She lapsed into thought— probably
assumed. Making up her mind she rubbed, fold on fold, her dark
grey flannel skirt at the knee, dispelling a trace of chalk or some­
thing. Then she said, still rubbing, not looking up:
‘Let me ask a blunt question, M r Haze. You are an oldfashioned Continental father, aren’t you?’
‘Why, no,’ I said, ‘conservative, perhaps, but not what you
would call old-fashioned.’
She sighed, frowned, then clapped her big plump hands to­
gether in a let’s-get-down-to-business manner, and again fixed her
beady eyes upon me.
‘Dolly Haze,’ she said, ‘is a lovely child, but the onset of sexual
maturing seems to give her trouble.’

189

I bowed slightly. What else could I do?
"‘She is still shuttling,’ said Miss Pratt, showing how with her
liver-spotted hands, ‘between the anal and genital zones of de­
velopment. Basically she is a lovely------5
‘I beg your pardon,’ I said, ‘what zones?’
‘That’s the old-fashioned European in you!’ cried Pratt deliver­
ing a slight tap on my wrist watch and suddenly disclosing her
dentures. ‘All X mean is that biologic and psychologic drives— do
you smoke?— are not fused in Dolly, do not fall so to speak into
a— into «a rounded pattern.’ Pier hands held for a moment an
invisible melon.
‘She is attractive, bright though careless’ (breathing heavily,
without leaving her perch, the woman took time out to look at
the lovely child’s report sheet on the desk at her right). ‘Her
marks are getting worse and worse. Now I wonder, M r Haze----- ’
Again the false meditation.
‘Well,’ she went on with zest, ‘as for me, I do smoke, and, as
dear Dr Pierce used to say: I ’m not proud of it but I jeest love it.’
She lit up and the smoke she exhaled from her nostrils was like a
pair of tusks.
‘Let me give you a few details, it won’t take a moment. Now
let me see [rummaging among her papers]. She is defiant toward
Miss Redcock and impossibly rude to Miss Cormorant. Now here
is one of our special research reports: Enjoys singing with group
in class though mind seems to wander. Crosses her knees and wags
left leg to rhythm. Type of by-words: a two-hundred-forty-two
word area of the commonest pubescent slang fenced in by a
number of obviously European polysyllabics. Sighs a good deal in
class. Let me see. Yes. Now comes the last week in November.
Sighs a good deal in class. Chews gum vehemently. Does not bite
her nails though, if she did, this would conform better to her
general pattern— scientifically speaking, of course. Menstruation,
according to the subject, well established. Belongs at present to no
church organization. By the way, M r Haze, her mother was----- ?
Oh, I see. And you are----- ? Nobody’s business is, I suppose,
God’s business. Something else we wanted to know. She has no
regular home duties, I understand. Making a princess of your
Dolly, M r Haze, eh? Well, what else have we got here? Handles
books gracefully. Voice pleasant. Giggles rather often. A little
190

dreamy. Has private jokes of her own, transposing for instance
the first letters of some of her teachers’ names. Hair light and
dark brown, lustrous— well [laughing] you are aware of that, I
suppose. Nose unobstructed, feet high-arched, eyes— let me see,
I had here somewhere a still more recent report. Aha, here we are.
Miss Gold says Dolly’s tennis form is excellent to superb, even
better than Linda Hall’s, but concentration and point-accumula­
tion are just ‘poor to fair’. Miss Cormorant cannot decide whether
Dolly has exceptional emotional control or none at all. Miss Horn
reports she— I mean, Dolly— cannot verbalize her emotions,
while according to Miss Cole, Dolly’s metabolic efficiency is
superfine. Miss Molar thinks Dolly is myopic and should see a
good ophthalmologist, but Miss Redcock insists that the girl
simulates eye-strain to get away with scholastic incompetence.
And to conclude, Mr Haze, our researchers are wondering about
something really crucial. Now I want to ask you something. I
want to know if your poor wife, or yourself, or anyone else in the
family— I understand she has several aunts and a maternal grand­
father in California?— oh, had!— I ’m sorry— well, we all wonder
if anybody in the family has instructed Dolly in the process of
mammalian reproduction. The general impression is that fifteenyear-old Dolly remains morbidly uninterested in sexual matters,
or, to be exact, represses her curiosity in order to save her ignorance
and self-dignity. A ll right— fourteen. You see, M r Haze, Beards­
ley School does not believe in bees and blossoms, and storks and
love birds, but it does believe very strongly in preparing its
students for mutually satisfactory mating and succesful child
rearing. We feel Dolly could make excellent progress if only she
would put her mind to her work. Miss Cormorant’s report is
significant in that respect. Dolly is inclined to be, mildly speaking,
impudent. But all feel that, primo, you should have your family
doctor tell her the facts of life and, secundo, that you allow her to
enjoy the company of her schoolmates’ brothers at the Junior
Club or in Dr Rigger’s organization, or in the lovely homes of
our parents.’
‘She may meet boys at her own lovely home,’ I said.
‘I hope she will,’ said Pratt buoyantly. ‘When we questioned
her about her troubles, Dolly refused to discuss the home situa­
tion, but we have spoken to some of her friends and really— well,

for example, we insist you un-veto her non-participation in the
dramatic group. You just must allow her to take part in The
Hunted Enchanters. She was such a perfect little nymph in the try­
out, and sometime in spring the author will stay for a few days at
Beardsley College and may attend a rehearsal or two in our new
auditorium. I mean it is all part of the fun of being young and
alive and beautiful. You must understand-----5
‘I always thought of myself/ I said, ‘as a very understanding
father.’
‘O h no doubt, no doubt, but Miss Gormorant thinks, and I am
inclined to agree with her, that Dolly is obsessed by sexual thoughts
for which she finds no outlet, and will tease and martyrize other
girls, or even our younger instructors because they do have in­
nocent dates with boys.5
Shrugged my shoulders. A shabby emigre.
‘Let us put our two heads together, M r Haze. W hat on earth
is wrong with that child?5
‘She seems quite normal and happy to me,5 I said (disaster
coming at last? was I found out? had they got some hypnotist?).
‘W hat worries me,5 said Miss Pratt looking at her watch and
starting to go over the whole subject again, ‘is that both teachers
and schoolmates find Dolly antagonistic, dissatisfied, cagey— and
everybody wonders why you are so firmly opposed to all the
natural recreations of a normal child.5
‘Do you mean sex play?5 1 asked jauntily, in despair, a cornered
old rat.
*.
‘Well, I certainly welcome this civilized terminology,5 said
Pratt with a grin. ‘But this is not quite the point. Under the
auspices of Beardsley School, dramatics, dances and other natural
activities are not technically sex play, though girls do meet boys,
if that is what you object to.5
‘A ll right, 5 1 said, my hassock exhaling a weary sigh. ‘You win.
She can take part in that play. Provided male parts are taken by
female parts.5
‘I am always fascinated,5 said Pratt, ‘by the admirable way
foreigners— or at least naturalized Americans— use our rich lan­
guage. I’m sure Miss Gold, who conducts the play group, will be
overjoyed. I notice she is one of the few teachers that seem to
like— I mean who seem to find Dolly manageable. This takes care

of general topics, I guess; now comes a special matter. We are in
trouble again.’
Pratt paused truculently, then rubbed her index finger under
her nostrils with such vigour that her nose performed a kind of
war dance.
T m a frank person,5she said, ‘but conventions are conventions,
and I find it difficult . .. Let me put it this way . .. The Walkers,
who live in what we call around here the Duke’s Manor, you
know the great grey house on the hill— they send their two girls
to our school, and we have the niece of President Moore with us,
a really gracious child, not to speak of a number of other promi­
nent children. Well, under the circumstances, it is rather a jolt
when Dolly, who looks like a little lady, uses words which you as
a foreigner probably simply do not know or do not understand.
Perhaps it might be better— Would you like me to have Dolly
come up here right away to discuss things? No? You see— oh
well, let’s have it out. Dolly has written a most obscene four-letter
word which our Dr Cutler tells me is low-Mexican for urinal
with her lipstick on some health pamphlets which Miss Redcock,
who is getting married in June, distributed among the girls, and
we thought she should Stay after hours— another half hour at least.
But if you like----- 5
‘No,’ I said, ‘I don’t want to interfere with rules. I shall talk
to her later. I shall thrash it out.’
‘Do,’ said the woman rising from her chair arm. ‘And perhaps
we can get together again soon, and if things do not improve we
might have Dr Cutler analyse her.5
Should I marry Pratt and strangle her?
. . and perhaps your family doctor might like to examine her
physically—just a routine chcck-up. She is in Mushroom— the
last classroom along that passage.’
Beardsley School, it may be explained, copied a famous girls’
school in England by having ‘traditional’ nicknames for its
various classrooms: Mushroom, Room-In 8, B-room, Room-BA
and so on. Mushroom was smelly, with a sepia print o f Reynolds’
‘Age of Innocence’ above the chalkboard, and several rows of
clumsy-looking pupil desks. At one of these, m y Lolita was reading
the chapter on ‘Dialogue’ in Baker’s Dramatic Technique, and all
was very quiet, and there was another girl with a very naked,

porcelain-white neck and wonderful platinum hair, who sat in
front reading too, absolutely lost to the world and interminably
winding a soft curl around one finger, and I sat beside Dolly just
behind that neck and that hair, and unbuttoned my overcoat and
for sixty-five cents plus the permission to participate in the school
play, had Dolly put her inky, chalky, red-knuckled hand under
the desk. Oh, stupid and reckless of me, no doubt, but after the
torture I had been subjected to, I simply had to take advantage
of a combination that I knew would never occur again.

1 2

a r ou n d Christmas she caught a bad chill and was examined by

a friend of Miss Lester, a Dr Ilse Tristramson (hi, Use, you were
a dear, uninquisitive soul, and you touched my dove very gently).
She diagnosed bronchitis, patted Lo on the back (all its bloom
erect because of the fever) and put her to bed for a week or
longer. A t first she ‘ran a temperature’ in American parlance,
and I could not resist the exquisite caloricity of unexpected de­
lights— Venus febriculosa— though it was a very languid Lolita
that moaned and coughed and shivered in my embrace. And as
soon as she was well again, I threw a Party with Boys.
Perhaps I had drunk a little too much in preparation for the
ordeal. Perhaps I made a fool of myself. The girls had decorated
and plugged in a small fir tree— German custom, except that
coloured bulbs had superseded wax candles. Records were chosen
and fed into my landlord’s phonograph. Chic Dolly wore a nice
grey dress with fitted bodice and flared skirt. Humming, I retired
to my study upstairs— and then every ten or twenty minutes !
would come down like an idiot just for a few seconds; to pick up
ostensibly my pipe from the mantelpiece or hunt for the news­
paper; and with every new visit these simple actions became

194

harder to perform, and I was reminded of the dreadfully distant
days when I used to brace myself to casually enter a room in the
Ramsdalc house where Little Carmen was on.
The party was not a success. O f the three girls invited, one did
not come at all, and one of the boys brought his cousin Roy, so
there was a superfluity of two boys, and the cousins knew all the
steps, and the other fellows could hardly dance at all, and most
of the evening was spent in messing up the kitchen, and then
endlessly jabbering about what card game to play, and sometime
later, two girls and four boys sat on the floor of the living room,
with all windows open, and played a word game which Opal
could not be made to understand, while Mona and Roy, a lean
handsome lad, drank ginger ale in the kitchen, sitting on the
table and dangling their legs, and hotly discussing Predestination
and the Law of Averages. After they had all gone my Lo said ugh,
closed her eyes, and dropped into a chair with all four limbs starfished to express the utmost disgust and exhaustion and swore it
was the most revolting bunch of boys she had ever seen. I bought
her a new tennis racket for that remark.
January was humid and warm, and February fooled the
forsythia: none of the townspeople had ever seen such weather.
Other presents came tumbling in. For her birthday I bought her
a bicycle, the doe-like and altogether charming machine already
mentioned— and added to this a History of Modern American
Painting: her bicycle manner, I mean her approach to it, the hip
movement in mounting, the grace and so on, afforded me supreme
pleasure; but my attempt to refine her pictorial taste was a
failure; she wanted to know if the guy noon-napping on Doris
Lee’s hay was the father of the pseudo-voluptuous hoyden in the
foreground, and could not understand why I said Grant Wood or
Peter Hurd was good, and Reginald Marsh or Frederick Waugh
awful.

*95

was, anyway, always butting in and saying the wrong thing, and
cramping her style in the presence of other people.
There was one very special rehearsal.. . my heart, my heart. . .
there was one day in M ay marked by a lot of gay flurry— it all
rolled past, beyond my ken, immune to my memory, and when
I saw Lo next, in the late afternoon, balancing on her bike, press­
ing the palm of her hand to the damp bark of a young birch tree
on the edge of our lawn, I was so struck by the radiant tenderness
of her smile that for an instant I believed all our troubles gone.
‘Gan you remember,5 she said, ‘what was the name of that hotel,
you know [nose puckered], come on, you know— -with those white
columns and the marble swan in the lobby? Oh, you know [noisy
exhalation of breath]— the hotel where you raped me. Okay, skip
it. I mean, was it [almost in a whisper] The Enchanted Hunters?
Oh, it was? [musingly] Was it?5— and with a yelp of amorous
vernal laughter she slapped the glossy bole and tore uphill, to the
end of the street, and then rode back, feet at rest on stopped
pedals, posture relaxed, one hand dreaming in her print-flowered
lap.

b e c a u s e it s u p p os e d l y tied up with her interest in dance and

dramatics, I had permitted Lo to take piano lessons with a Miss
Emperor (as we French scholars may conveniently call her) to
whose blue-shuttered little white house a mile or so beyond
Beardsley Lo would spin off twice a week. One Friday night
toward the end of May (and a week or so after the very special
rehearsal Lo had not had me attend) the telephone in my study,
where I was in the act of mopping up Gustave’s— I mean Gaston’s
— king’s side, rang and Miss Emperor asked if Lo was coming next
Tuesday because she had missed last Tuesday’s and today’s

198

lessons. I said she would by all means— and went on with the
game. As the reader may well imagine, my faculties were now
impaired, and a move or two later, with Gaston to play, I
noticed through the film of my general distress that he could
collect my queen; he noticed it too, but thinking it might be a
trap on the part of his tricky opponent, he demurred for quite a
minute, and puffed and wheezed, and shook his jowls, and even
shot furtive glances at me, and made hesitating half-thrusts with
his pudgily bunched fingers— dying to take that juicy queen and
not daring— and all of a sudden he swooped upon it (who knows
if it did not teach him certain later audacities?), and I spent a
dreary hour in achieving a draw. He finished his brandy and
presently lumbered away, quite satisfied with this result (mon
pauvre ami,je ne vous ai jamais revu el quoiquHly ait bien peu de chance
que vous voyiez mon lime, permettez~moi de vous dire que je vous serre la
main bien cordialement, et que toutes mes fillettes vous saluent). I found
Dolores Haze at the kitchen table, consuming a wedge o f pie,
with her eyes fixed on her script. They rose to meet mine with a
kmd of celestial vapidity. She remained singularly unruffled when
confronted with my discovery, and said d’un petit air faussement
contrit that she knew she was a very wicked kid, but simply had
not been able to resist the enchantment, and had used up those
music hours— O Reader, M y Reader!— in a nearby public park
rehearsing the magic forest scene with Mona. I said ‘fine’— and
stalked to the telephone. Mona’s mother answered: ‘Oh yes, she’s
in’ and retreated with a mother’s neutral laugh of polite pleasure
to shout off stage ‘Roy calling!’ and the very next moment Mona
rustled up, and forthwith, in a low monotonous not untender
voice started berating Roy for something he had said or done and
I interrupted her, and presently Mona was saying in her humblest,
sexiest contralto, ‘yes, sir’, ‘surely, sir’, ‘I am alone to blame, sir,
in this unfortunate business’ (what elocution! what poise!),
‘honest, I feel very bad about it’— and so on and so forth as those
little harlots say.
So downstairs I went clearing my throat and holding my heart.
Lo was now in the living room, in her favourite overstuffed chair.
As she sprawled there, biting at a hangnail and mocking me with
her heartless vaporous eyes, and all the time rocking a stool upon
which she had placed the heel of an outstretched shoeless foot, I
199

perceived all at once with a sickening qualm how much she had
changed since I first met her two years ago. O r had this happened
during those last two weeks? Tendresse? Surely that was an ex­
ploded myth. She sat right in the focus of my incandescent anger.
The fog of all lust had been swept away leaving nothing but this
dreadful lucidity. Oh, she had changed! Her complexion was
now that of any vulgar untidy high-school girl who applies shared
cosmetics with grubby fingers to an unwashed face and does not
mind what soiled texture, what pustulate epidermis comes in
contact with her skin. Its smooth tender bloom had been so
lovely in former days, so bright with tears, when I used to roll,
in play, her tousled head on my knee. A coarse flush had now
replaced that innocent fluorescence. W hat was locally known as a
‘rabbit cold’ had painted with flaming pink the edges of her con­
temptuous nostrils. As in terror I lowered my gaze, it mechanic­
ally slid along the underside of her tensely stretched bare thigh—
how polished and muscular her legs had grown! She kept her
wide-set eyes, clouded-glass grey and slightly bloodshot, fixed
upon me, and I saw the stealthy thought showing through them
that perhaps after all Mona was right, and she, orphan Lo, could
expose me without getting penalized herself. How wrong I was.
How mad I was! Everything about her was of the same exas­
perating impenetrable order— the strength of her shapely legs,
the dirty sole of her white sock, the thick sweater she wore despite
the closeness of the room, her wenchy smell, and especially the
dead end of her face with its strange flush and freshly made-up
lips. Some of the red had left stains on her front teeth, and I was
struck by a ghastly recollection— the evoked image not of
Monique, but of another young prostitute in a bell-house, ages
ago, who had been snapped up by somebody else before I had
time to decide whether her mere youth warranted my risking
some appalling disease, and who had just such flushed prominent
pommettes and a dead maman, and big front teeth, and a bit of
dingy red ribbon in her country-brown hair.
‘Well, speak,’ said Lo. ‘Was the corroboration satisfactory?’
‘Oh, yes,’ I said. ‘Perfect. Yes. And I do not doubt you two
made it up. As a matter of fact, I do not doubt you have told her
everything about us.’
‘Oh, yah?’
2 0 0

I controlled my breath and said: ‘Dolores, this must stop right
away. I am ready to yank you out of Beardsley and lock you up
you know where, but this must stop. I am ready to take you away
the time it takes to pack a suitcase. This must stop or else any­
thing may happen.’
‘Anything may happen, huh?5
I snatched away the stool she was rocking with her heel and
her foot fell with a thud on the floor.
‘Hey,’ she cried, ‘take it easy.’
‘First of all you go upstairs,’ I cried in my turn and simul­
taneously grabbed at her and pulled her up. From that moment,
I stopped restraining my voice, and we continued yelling at each
other, and she said unprintable things. She said she loathed me.
She made monstrous faces at me, inflating her cheeks and pro­
ducing a diabolical plopping sound. She said I had attempted to
violate her several times when I was her mother’s roomer. She
said she was sure I had murdered her mother. She said she would
sleep with the very first fellow who asked her and I could do
nothing about it. I said she was to go upstairs and show me all
her hiding places. It was a strident and hateful scene. I held her
by her knobby wrist and she kept turning and twisting it this way
and that, surreptitiously trying to find a weak point so as to
wrench herself free at a favourable moment, but I held her quite
hard and in fact hurt her rather badly for which I hope my heart
may rot, and once or twice she jerked her arm so violently that I
feared her wrist might snap, and all the while she stared at me
with those unforgettable eyes where cold anger and hot tears
struggled, and our voices were drowning the telephone, and when
I grew aware of its ringing she instantly escaped.
With people in movies I seem to share the services o f the
machina telephonica and its sudden god. This time it was an
irate neighbour. The east window happened to be agape in the
living room, with the blind mercifully down, however; and behind
it the damp black night of a sour New England spring had been
breathlessly listening to us. I had always thought that type o f
haddocky spinster with the obscene mind was the result of con­
siderable literary inbreeding in modern fiction; but now I am
convinced that prude and prurient Miss East— or to explode her
incognito, Miss Fenton Lebone— had been probably protruding
201

three-quarter-way from her bedroom window as she strove to
catch the gist of our quarrel.
‘. . . This racket. . . lacks all sense o f. . .’ quacked the receiver,
‘we do not live in a tenement here. I must emphatically . . .*
I apologized for my daughter’s friends being so loud. Young
people, you know— and cradled the next quack and a half.
Downstairs the screen door banged. Lo? Escaped?
Through the casement on the stairs I saw a small impetuous
ghost slip through the shrubs; a silvery dot in the dark— hub of
bicycle wheel— moved, shivered, and she was gone.
It so happened that the car was spending the night in a repair
shop downtown. I had no other alternative than to pursue on
foot the winged fugitive. Even now, after more than three years
have heaved and elapsed, I cannot visualize that spring-night
street, that already so leafy street, without a gasp of panic. Before
their lighted porch Miss Lester was promenading Miss Fabian’s
dropsical dackel. M r Hyde almost knocked it over. Walk three
steps and run three. A tepid rain started to drum on the chestnut
leaves. A t the next corner, pressing Lolita against an iron railing,
a blurred youth held and kissed— no, not her, mistake. M y talons
still tingling, I flew on.
H alf a mile or so east of number fourteen, Thayer Street
tangles with a private lane and a cross street; the latter leads to
the town proper; in front of the first drugstore, I saw— with what
melody of relief!— Lolita’s fair bicycle waiting for her. I pushed
instead of pulling, pulled, pushed, pulled, and entered. Look out!
Some ten paces away Lolita, through the glass of a telephone
booth (membraneous god still with us), cupping the tube, con­
fidentially hunched over it, slit her eyes at me, turned away with
her treasure, hurriedly hung up, and walked out with a flourish.
‘Tried to reach you at home,’ she said brightly. ‘A great de­
cision has been made. But first buy me a drink, dad.’
She watched the listless pale fountain girl put in the ice, pour
in the coke, add the cherry syrup— and my heart was bursting
with love-ache. That childish wrist. M y lovely child. You have a
lovely child, Mr Humbert. We always admire her as she passes by.
M r Pim watched Pippa. suck in the concoction.
J ’ai toujours admire Voeuvre ormonde du sublime Dublinois. And in
the meantime the rain had become a voluptuous shower.

‘Look,’ she said as she rode the bike beside me, one foot
scraping the darkly glistening sidewalk, ‘look, I’ve decided some­
thing. I want to leave school. I hate that school. I hate the play,
I really do! Never go back. Find another. Leave at once. Go for
a long trip again. But this time w e’ll go wherever I want, won’t
we?’ ■
I nodded. M y Lolita.
‘I choose? C’est entendu?’ she asked wobbling a little beside me.
Used French only when she was a very good little girl.
‘Okay. Entendu. Now hop-hop-hop, Lenore, or you’ll get
soaked.’ (A storm of sobs was filling my chest.)
She bared her teeth and after her adorable schoolgirl fashion,
leaned forward, and away she sped, my bird.
Miss Lester’s finely groomed hand held a porch-door open for
a waddling old dog qui prenait, son temps.
Lo was waiting for me near the ghostly birch-tree.
‘I am drenched,’ she declared at the top of her voice. ‘Are you
glad? To hell with the play! See what I mean?’
An invisible hag’s claw slammed down an upper-floor window.
In our hallway, ablaze with welcoming lights, my Lolita peeled
off her sweater, shook her gemmed hair, stretched towards me
two bare arms, raised one knee:
‘Garry me upstairs, please. I feel sort of romantic tonight.’
It may interest physiologists to learn, at this point, that I have
the ability— a most singular case, I presume— of shedding torrents
of tears throughout the other tempest.

t he b rakes w e r e relined, the waterpipes unclogged, the valves

ground, and a number of other repairs and improvements were
paid for by not very mechanically-minded but prudent papa
Humbert, so that the late Mrs Humbert’s car was in respectable
shape when ready to undertake a new journey.

We had promised Beardsley School, good old Beardsley School,
that we would be back as soon as my Hollywood engagement
came to an end (inventive Humbert was to be, I hinted, chief
consultant in the production of a film dealing with ‘existentialism’,
still a hot thing at the time). Actually X was toying with the idea
of gently trickling across the Mexican border— I was braver now
than last year— and there deciding what to do with my little
concubine who was now sixty inches tall and weighed ninety
pounds. We had dug out our tour books and maps. She had traced
our route with immense zest. Was it thanks to those theatricals
that she had now outgrown her juvenile jaded airs and was so
adorably keen to explore rich reality? I experienced the queer
lightness of dreams that pale but warm Sunday morning when
we abandoned Professor Chem’s puzzled house and sped along
Main Street toward the four-lane highway. M y Love’s striped,
black-and-white, cotton frock, jaunty blue cap, white socks and
brown moccasins were not quite in keeping with the large
beautifully cut aquamarine on a silver chainlet, which gemmed
her throat: a spring rain gift from me. We passed the New
Hotel, and she laughed. ‘A penny for your thoughts,’ I said and
she stretched out her palm at once, but at that moment I had to
apply the brakes rather abruptly at a red light. As we pulled up,
another car came to a gliding stop alongside, and a very striking
looking, athletically lean young woman (where had I seen her?)
with a high complexion and shoulder-length brilliant bronze hair,
greeted Lo with a ringing ‘Hi!5— and then, addressing me,
effusively, edusively (placed!), stressing certain words, said:
‘What a shame it was to tear Dolly away from the play— you should
have heard the author raving about her after that rehearsal----- ’
‘Green light, you dope,’ said Lo under her breath, and simul­
taneously, waving in bright adieu a bangled arm, Joan of Arc
(in a performance we saw at the local theatre) violently out­
distanced us to swerve into Campus Avenue.
‘Who was it exactly? Vermont or Rumpelmeyer?’
‘No— Edusa Gold— the gal who coaches us.’
‘I was not referring to her. Who exactly concocted that play?’
‘Oh! Yes, of course. Some old woman, Glare Something, I
guess. There was quite a crowd of them there.’
‘So she complimented you?’

‘Complimented my eye— she kissed me on my pure brow’— and
my darling emitted that new yelp of merriment which— perhaps
in connection with her theatrical mannerisms— she had lately
begun to affect.
‘You are a funny creature, Lolita , 5*i 1 said— or some such words.
‘Naturally, I am overjoyed you gave up that absurd stage business.
But what is curious is that you dropped the whole thing only a
week before its natural climax. Oh, Lolita, you should be careful
of those surrenders of yours. I remember you gave up Ramsdale
for camp, and camp for a joy ride, and I could list other abrupt
changes in your disposition. Y ou must be careful. There are
things that should never be given up. You must persevere. You
should try to be a little nicer to me, Lolita. You should also
watch your diet. The tour of your thigh, you know, should not
exceed seventeen and a half inches. More might be fatal (I was
kidding, of course). We are now setting out on a long happy
journey. I remember----- 5

i re member as a child in Europe gloating over a map of North

America that had ‘Appalachian Mountains’ boldly running from
Alabama up to New Brunswick, so that the whole region they
spanned— Tennessee, the Virginias, Pennsylvania, New York,
Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine— appeared to my imagina­
tion as a gigantic Switzerland or even Tibet, all mountain,
glorious diamond peak upon peak, giant conifers, le montagnard
Emigre in his bear-skin glory, and Felis tigris goldsmithi, and Red
Indians under the catalpas. That it all boiled down to a measly
suburban lawn and a smoking garbage incinerator, was appalling.
Farewell, Appalachia! Leaving it, we crossed Ohio, the three
states beginning with ‘I 5, and Nebraska— ah, that first w hiff of
205

the West! We travelled very leisurely, having more than a week
to reach Wace, Continental Divide, where she passionately de­
sired to see the Ceremonial Dances marking the seasonal opening
of M agic Cave, and at least three weeks to reach Elphinstone,
gem of a western State where she yearned to climb Red Rock
from which a mature screen star had recently jumped to her death
after a drunken row with her gigolo.
Again we were welcomed to wary motels by means of inscrip­
tions that read:
‘We wish you to feel at home while here. All equipment was
carefully checked upon your arrival. Your licence number is on
record here. Use hot water sparingly. We reserve the right to eject
without notice any objectionable person. Do not throw waste
material of any kind in the toilet bowl. Thank you. Call again.
The Management. PS. We consider our guests the Finest People
of the World.5
In these frightening places we paid ten for twins, flies queued
outside at the screenless door and successfully scrambled in, the
ashes of our predecessors still lingered in the ashtrays, a woman’s
hair lay on the pillow, one heard one’s neighbour hanging his coat
in his closet, the hangers were ingeniously fixed to their bars by
coils of wire so as to thwart theft, and, in crowning insult, the
pictures above the twin beds were identical twins. I also noticed
that commercial fashion was changing. There was a tendency for
cabins to fuse and gradually form the caravansary, and, lo (she
was not interested but the reader may be), a second story was
added, and a lobby grew in, and cars were removed to a com­
munal garage, and the motel reverted to the good old hotel,
I now warn the reader not to mock me and my mental daze. It
is easy for him and me to decipher now a past destiny; but a
destiny in the making is, believe me, not one of those honest
mystery stories where all you have to do is keep an eye on the
clues. In my youth I once read a French detective tale where the
clues were actually in italics; but that is not McFate’s way— even
if one does learn to recognize certain obscure indications.
For instance: I would not swear that there was not at least one
occasion, prior to, or at the very beginning of, the Midwest lap of
our journey, when she managed to convey some information to, or
otherwise get into contact with, a person or persons unknown. We
206

had stopped at a gas station, under the sign of Pegasus, and she
had slipped out of her seat and escaped to the rear of the pre­
mises while the raised hood, under which I had bent to watch the
mechanic’s manipulations, hid her for a moment from my sight.
Being inclined to be lenient, I only shook my benign head though
strictly speaking such visits were taboo, since I felt instinctively
that toilets— as also telephones— happened to be for reasons un­
fathomable, the points where my destiny was liable to catch. We
all have such fateful objects— it may be a recurrent landscape in
one case, a number in another— carefully chosen by the gods to
attract events of special significance for us: here shall John always
stumble; there shall Jane’s heart always break.
Well— my car had been attended to, and I had moved it away
from the pumps to let a pickup truck be serviced— when the
growing volume of her absence began to weigh upon me in the
windy greyness. Not for the first time, and not for the last, had I
stared in such dull discomfort of mind at those stationary triviali­
ties that look almost surprised, like staring rustics, to find them­
selves in the stranded traveller’s field of vision: that green garbage
can, those very black, very whitewalled tyres for sale, those bright
cans of motor oil, that red icebox with assorted drinks, the four,
five, seven discarded bottles within the incompleted crossword
puzzle of their wooden cells, that bug patiently walking up the
inside window of the office. Radio music was coming from its open
door, and because the rhythm was not synchronized with the
heave and flutter and other gestures of wind-animated vegetation,
one bad the impression of an old scenic film living its own life
while piano or fiddle followed a line of music quite outside the
shivering flower, the swaying branch. The sound o f Charlotte’s
last sob incongruously vibrated through me as, with her dress
fluttering athwart the xiiythm, Lolita veered from a totally un­
expected direction. She had found the toilet occupied and had
crossed over to the sign of the Conche in the next block. They
said there they were proud of their home-clean rest rooms. These
prepaid postcards, they said, had been provided for your com­
ments. No postcards. No soap. Nothing. No comments.
That day or the next, after a tedious drive through a land of
food crops, we reached a pleasant little burg and put up at Chest­
nut Court— nice cabins, damp green grounds, apple trees, an old
207
;:hj|
•sK

swing— and a tremendous sunset which the tired child ignored.
She had wanted to go through Kasbeam because it was onlythirty miles north from her home town but on the following
morning I found her quite listless, with no desire to see again the
sidewalk where she had played hopscotch some five years before.
For obvious reasons I had rather dreaded that side trip, even
though we had agreed not to make ourselves conspicuous in any
way— to remain in the car and not look up old friends. My relief
at her abandoning the project was spoiled by the thought that
had she felt I were totally against the nostalgic possibilities of
Pisky, as I had been last year, she would not have given up so
easily. On my mentioning this with a sigh, she sighed too and
complained of being out o f sorts. She wanted to remain in bed till
teatime at least, with lots of magazines, and then if she felt better
she suggested we just continue westward. I must say she was very
sweet and languid, and craved for fresh fruits, and I decided to
go and fetch a toothsome picnic lunch in Kasbeam. Our cabin
stood on the timbered crest o f a hill, and from our window you
could see the road winding down, and then running as straight
as a hair parting between two rows of chestnut trees, towards the
pretty town, which looked singularly distinct and toy-like in the
pure morning distance. One could make out an elf-like girl on an
insect-like bicycle, and a dog, a bit too large proportionately, all
as clear as those pilgrims and mules winding up wax-pale roads
in old paintings with blue hills and red little people. I have the
European urge to use my feet when a drive can be dispensed with,
so I leisurely walked down, eventually meeting the cyclist— a plain
plump girl with pigtails, followed b y a huge St Bernard dog with
orbits like pansies. In Kasbeam a very old barber gave me a very
mediocre haircut: he babbled of a baseball-playing son of his,
and, at every explodent, spat into my neck, and every now and
then wiped his glasses on m y sheet-wrap, or interrupted his
tremulous scissor work to produce faded newspaper clippings,
and so inattentive was I that it came as a shock to realize as he
pointed to an easeled photograph among the ancient grey
lotions, that the moustached young ball player had been dead
for the last thirty years.
1 had a cup o f hot flavourless coffee, bought a bunch o f bananas
for my monkey, and spent another ten minutes or so in a delica­
208

tessen store. A t least an hour and a half must have elapsed when
this homeward-bound little pilgrim appeared on the winding road
leading to Chestnut Castle.
The girl I had seen on my way to town was now loaded with
linen and engaged in helping a misshapen man whose big head
and coarse features reminded me of the ‘Bertoldo’ character in
low Italian comedy. They were cleaning the cabins of which
there was a dozen or so on Chestnut Crest, all pleasantly spaced
amid the copious verdure. It was noon, and most of them, with
a final bang of their screen doors, had already got rid of their
occupants. A very elderly, almost mummy-like couple in a very
new model were in the act of creeping out of one of the contiguous
garages; from another a red hood protruded in somewhat cod­
piece fashion; and nearer to our cabin, a strong and handsome
young man with a shock of black hair and blue eyes was putting
a portable refrigerator into a station wagon. For some reason he
gave me a sheepish grin as I passed. O n the grass expanse
opposite, in the many-limbed shade of luxuriant trees, the familiar
St Bernard dog was guarding his mistress’s bicycle, and nearby a
young woman, far gone in the family way, had seated a rapt baby
on a swing and was rocking it gently, while a jealous boy o f two
or three was making a nuisance of himself by trying to push or
pull the swing board; he finally succeeded in getting himself
knocked down by it, and bawled loudly as he lay supine on the
grass while his mother continued to smile gently at neither o f her
present children. I recall so clearly these minutiae probably
because I was to check my impressions so thoroughly only a few
minutes later; and besides, something in me had been on guard
ever since that awful night in Beardsley. I now refused to be
diverted by the feeling of well-being that my walk had engendered
— by the young summer breeze that enveloped the nape o f my
neck, the giving crunch of the damp gravel, and juicy titbit I had
sucked out at last from a hollow tooth, and even the comfortable
weight of my provisions which the general condition of my heart
should not have allowed me to carry; but even that miserable
pump of mine seemed to be working sweetly, and I felt adolori
d'amoureuse langueur, to quote dear old Ronsard, as I reached the
cottage where I had left my Dolores.
To my surprise I found her dressed. She was sitting on the edge
209

of the bed in slacks and T-shirt, and was looking at me as if she
could not quite place me. The frank soft shape of her small breasts
was brought out rather than blurred by the limpness of her thin
shirt, and this frankness irritated me. She had not washed; yet
her mouth was freshly though smudgily painted, and her broad
teeth glistened like wine-tinged ivory, or pinkish poker chips.
And there she sat, hands clasped in her lap, and dreamily brimmed
with a diabolical glow that had no relation to me whatever.
I plumped down my heavy paper bag and stood staring at the
bare ankles of her sandalled feet, then at her silly face, then again
at her sinful feet. ‘You’ve been out,’ I said (the sandals were
filthy with gravel).
‘I just got up,’ she replied, and added upon intercepting my
downward glance: ‘Went out for a sec. Wanted to see if you were
coming back.’
She became aware of the bananas and uncoiled herself tableward. ■ ■■.
What special suspicion could I have? None indeed— but those
muddy, moony eyes of hers, that singular warmth emanating from
her! I said nothing. I looked at the road meandering so distinctly
within the frame of the window. . . . Anybody wishing to betray
my trust would have found it a splendid lookout. With rising
appetite, Lo applied herself to the fruit. A ll at once I remembered
the ingratiating grin of the Johnny next door. I stepped out
quickly. All cars had disappeared except his station wagon; his
pregnant young wife was now getting into it with her baby and
the other, more or less cancelled, child.
‘What’s the matter, where are you going?’ cried Lo from the
porch.
I said nothing. I pushed her softness back into the room and
went in after her. I ripped her shirt off. I unzipped the rest of her.
I tore off her sandals. Wildly, I pursued the shadow of her in­
fidelity; but the scent I travelled upon was so slight as to be
practically indistinguishable from a madman’s fancy.

iy
GEOS g a s t o n , in his prissy way, had liked to make presents—
presents just a prissy wee bit out of the ordinary, or so he prissily
thought. Noticing one night that my box of chessmen was broken,
he sent me next morning, with a little lad of his, a copper case: it
had an elaborate Oriental design over the lid and could be
securely locked. One glance sufficed to assure me that it was one
of those cheap money boxes called for some reason ‘luizettas’ that
you buy in Algiers and elsewhere, and wonder what to do with
afterwards. It turned out to be much too flat for holding my bulky
chessmen, but I kept it— using it for a totally different purpose.
In order to break some pattern of fate in which I obscurely felt
myself being enmeshed, I had decided— despite Lo’s visible
annoyance— to spend another night at Chestnut Court; definitely
waking up at four in the morning, I ascertained that Lo was still
sound asleep (mouth open, in a kind of dull amazement at the
curiously inane life we all had rigged up for her) and satisfied my­
self that the precious contents of the ‘luizetta5 were safe. There,
snugly wrapped in a white woollen scarf, lay a pocket automatic:
calibre *32, capacity of magazine eight cartridges, length a little
under one-ninth of Lolita’s length, stock checked walnut, finish
full blued. I had inherited it from the late Harold Haze, with a
1938 catalogue which cheerily said in part: ‘Particularly well
adapted for use in the home and car as well as on the person.5
There it lay, ready for instant service on the person or persons,
loaded and fully cocked with the slide lock in safety position, thus
precluding any accidental discharge. W e must remember that a
pistol is the Freudian symbol of the Ur-father’s central forelimb.
I was now glad I had it with me— and even more glad that I
had learned to use it two years before, in the pine forest around
my and Charlotte’s glass lake. Farlow, with whom I had roamed
those remote woods, was an admirable marksman, and with his
‘ 38 actually managed to hit a humming bird, though I must say
211

not much of it could be retrieved for proof— only a little iridescent
fluff. A burly ex-policeman called Krestovski, who in the
’twenties had shot and killed two escaped convicts, joined us and
bagged a tiny woodpecker— completely out of season, incidentally.
Between these two sportsmen I of course was a novice and kept
missing everything, though I did wound a squirrel on a later
occasion when I wrent out alone. ‘You lie here, 5 1 whispered to my
light-weight compact little chum, and then toasted it with a dram
of gin.

18
the r e a d e r must now forget Chestnuts and Colts, and accom­

pany us further west. The following days were marked by a
number of great thunderstorms— or perhaps, there was but one
single storm which progressed across country in ponderous frogleaps and which we could not shake off just as we could not shake
off detective Trapp; for it was during those days that the problem
of the Aztec Red Convertible presented itself to me, and quite
overshadowed the theme of Lo’s lovers.
Queer! I who was jealous of every male we met— queer, how I
misinterpreted the designations of doom. Perhaps I had been
lulled by Lo’s modest behaviour in winter, and anyway it would
have been too foolish even for a lunatic to suppose another
Humbert was avidly following Humbert and Humbert’s nymphet
with Jovian fireworks, over the great and ugly plains. I surmised,
done, that the Red Yak keeping behind us at a discreet distance
mile after mile was operated by a detective whom some busybody
had hired to see what exactly Humbert Humbert was doing with
that minor stepdaughter of his. As happens with me at periods of
electrical disturbance and crepitating lightnings, I had hallucina­
tions. Maybe they were more than hallucinations. I do not know

what she or he or both had put into my liquor but one night I
felt sure somebody was tapping on the door of our cabin, and I
flung it open, and noticed two things— that I was stark naked and
that, white-glistening in the rain-dripping darkness, there stood a
man holding before his face the mask of Jutting Chin, a grotesque
sleuth in the funnies. He emitted a muffled guffaw and scurried
away, and I reeled back into the room, and fell asleep again, and
am not sure even to this day that the visit was not a drugprovoked dream: I have thoroughly studied Trapp’s type o f
humour, and this might have been a plausible sample. Oh, crude
and absolutely ruthless! Somebody, I imagined, was making
money on those masks of popular monsters and morons. Did I see
next morning two urchins rummaging in a garbage can and trying
on Jutting Chin? I wonder. It may all have been a coincidence—
due to atmospheric conditions, I suppose.
Being a murderer with a sensational but incomplete and un­
orthodox memory, I cannot tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the
exact day when I first knew with utter certainty that the red con­
vertible was following us. I do remember, however, the first time
I saw its driver quite clearly. I was proceeding slowly one after­
noon through torrents of rain and kept seeing that red ghost
swimming and shivering with lust in my mirror, when presently
the deluge dwindled to a patter, and then was suspended
altogether. With a swishing sound a sunburst swept the highway,
and, needing a pair of new sunglasses, I pulled up at a filling
station. What was happening was a sickness, a cancer, that could
not be helped, so I simply ignored the fact that our quiet pursuer,
in his converted state, stopped a little behind us at a cafe or bar
bearing the idiotic sign: ‘The Bustle: A Deceitful Seatful’. Having
seen to the needs of my car, I walked into the office to get those
glasses and pay for the gas. As I was in the act of signing a
travellers5 cheque and wondered about my exact whereabouts, I
happened to glance through a side window, and saw a terrible
thing. A broad-backed man, baldish, in an oatmeal coat and darkbrown trousers, was listening to Lo who was leaning out of the car
and talking to him very rapidly, her hand with outspread fingers
going up and down as it did when she was very serious and
emphatic. What struck me with sickening force was— how should
I put it?— the voluble familiarity of her way, as if they had known

213

each other— oh, for weeks and weeks. I saw him scratch his cheek
and nod, and turn, and walk back to his convertible, a broad and
thickish man of my age, somewhat resembling Gustave Trapp, a
cousin of my father’s in Switzerland-sam e smoothly tanned face,
fuller than mine, with a small dark moustache and a rosebud
degenerate mouth. Lolita was studying a road map when I got
back into the car.
‘W hat did that man ask you, Lo?’
‘Man? Oh, that man. Oh, yes. Oh, I don’t know. He wondered
if I had a map. Lost his way, I guess.’
W e drove on, and I said:
‘Now listen, Lo. I do not know whether you are lying or not,
and I do not know whether you are insane or not, and I do not
care for the moment; but that person has been following us all
day, and his car was at the motel yesterday, and I think he is a
cop. You know perfectly well what will happen and where you
will go if the police find out about things. Now I want to know
exactly what he said to you and what you told him.’
She laughed.
T f he’s really a cop,’ she said shrilly but not illogically, ‘the
worst thing we could do, would be to show him we are scared.
Ignore him, Dad.*
‘Did he ask where we were going?’
‘Oh, he knows that* (mocking me).
‘Anyway,’ I said, giving up, ‘I have seen his face now. He is
not pretty. He looks exactly like a relative of mine called Trapp.’
‘Perhaps he is Trapp. If I were you— Oh, look, all the nines
are changing into the next thousand. When I was a little kid,’
she continued unexpectedly, ‘I used to think they’d stop and go
back to nines, if only my mother agreed to put the car in reverse.’
It was the first time, I think, she spoke spontaneously of her
pre-Humbertian childhood; perhaps, the theatre had taught her
that trick; and silently we travelled on, unpursued.
But next day, like pain in a fatal disease that comes back as the
drug and hope wear off, there it was again behind us, that glossy
red beast. The traffic on the highway was light that day; nobody
passed anybody; and nobody attempted to get in between our
humble blue car and its imperious red shadow— as if there were
some spell cast on that interspace, a zone of evil mirth and magic,
214

a zone whose very precision and stability had a glass-like virtue
that was almost artistic. The driver behind me, with his stuffed
shoulders and Trappish moustache, looked like a display dummy,
and his convertible seemed to move only because an invisible rope
of silent silk connected it with our shabby vehicle. W e were many
times weaker than his splendid, lacquered machine, so that I did
not even attempt to outspeed him. 0 lente currite metis equil
O softly run, nightmares! W e climbed long grades and rolled
downhill again, and heeded speed limits, and spared slow
children, and'reproduced in sweeping terms the black wiggles of
curves on their yellow shields, and no matter how and where we
drove, the enchanted interspace slid on intact, mathematical,
mirage-like, the viatic counterpart of a magic carpet. And all the
time I was aware of a private blaze on my right: her joyful eye,
her flaming cheek.
A traffic policeman, deep in the nightmare of crisscross streets—
at 4.30 p.m. in a factory town— was the hand of chance that
interrupted the spell. He beckoned me on, and then with the same
hand cut off my shadow. A score of cars were launched in
between us, and I sped on, and deftly turned into a narrow lane.
A sparrow alighted with a jum bo breadcrumb, was tackled by
another, and lost the crumb.
When after a few grim stoppages and a bit of deliberate
meandering, I returned to the highway, our shadow had dis­
appeared.
Lola snorted and said: ‘If he is what you think he is, how silly
to give him the slip.5
‘I have other notions by now,’ I said.
‘You should— ah— check them by— ah— keeping in touch with
him, fahther dealt,5 said Lo, writhing in the coils of her own
sarcasm. ‘Gee, you are mean,5she added in her ordinary voice.
We spent a grim night in a very foul cabin, under a sonorous
amplitude of rain, and with a kind of prehistorically loud thunder
incessantly rolling above us.
‘I am not a lady and do not like lightning,5 said Lo, whose
dread of electric storms gave me some pathetic solace.
We had breakfast in the tov/hship of Soda, population 1,001.
‘Judging by the terminal figure, 5 1 remarked, ‘Fatface is already
here.5

215

‘Your humour,’ said Lo, ‘is sidesplitting, deah fahther.’
We were in sage-brush country by that time, and there was a
day or two of lovely release (I had been a fool, all was well, that
discomfort was merely a trapped flatus), and presently the mesas
gave way to real mountains, and, on time, we drove into Wace.
Oh, disaster. Some confusion had occurred, she had misread a
date in the Tour Book, and the Magic Gave ceremonies were over!
She took it bravely, I must admit— and, when we discovered
there was in kurortish Wace a summer theatre in full swing, we
naturally drifted toward it one fair mid-June evening. I really
could not tell you the plot of the play we saw. A trivial affair, no
doubt, with self-conscious light effects and a mediocre leading
lady. The only detail that pleased me was a garland of seven little
graces, more or less immobile, prettily painted, bare-limbed—
seven bemused pubescent girls in coloured gauze that had been
recruited locally (judging by the partisan flurry here and there
among the audience) and were supposed to represent a living
rainbow, which lingered throughout the last act, and rather
teasingly faded behind a series of multiplied veils. I remember
thinking that this idea of children-colours had been lifted by
authors Glare Quilty and Vivian Darkbloom from a passage in
James Joyce, and that two of the colours were quite exasperatingly
lovely— Orange who kept fidgeting all the time, and Emerald who,
when her eyes got used to the pitch-black pit where we all heavily
sat, suddenly smiled at her mother or her protector.
As soon as the thing was over, and manual applause— a sound
my nerves cannot stand— began to crash all around me, I started
to pull and push Lo toward the exit, in my so natural amorous
impatience to get her back to our neon-blue cottage in the stunned,
starry night: I always say nature is stunned by the sights she sees.
Dolly-Lo, however, lagged behind, in a rosy daze, her pleased
eyes narrowed, her sense of vision swamping the rest of her senses
to such an extent that her limp hands hardly came together at all
in the mechanical action of clapping they still went through. I
had seen that kind of thing in children before but, by God, this
was a special child, myopically beaming at the already remote
stage where I glimpsed something of the joint authors— a man’s
tuxedo and the bare shoulders of a hawk-like, black-haired,
strikingly tall woman.

216

‘You’ve again hurt my wrist, you brute,’ said Lolita in a small
voice as she slipped into her car seat.
‘I am dreadfully sorry, my darling, my own ultraviolet darling,5
I said, unsuccessfully trying to catch her elbow, and I added, to
change the conversation— to change the direction of fate, oh
God, oh God: ‘Vivian is quite a woman. I am sure we saw her
yesterday in that restaurant, in Soda pop.’
‘Sometimes,’ said Lo, ‘you are quite revoltingly dumb. First,
Vivian is the male author, the gal author is Clare; and second,
she is forty, married and has Negro blood.’
‘I thought,’ I said kidding her, ‘Quilty was an ancient flame of
yours, in the days when you loved me, in sweet old Ramsdale.’
‘What?’ countered Lo, her features working. ‘That fat dentist?
You must be confusing me with some other fast little article.’
And I thought to myself how those fast little articles forget
everything, everything, while we, old lovers, treasure every inch
of their nymphancy.

and assent, the two post offices given
to the Beardsley postmaster as forwarding addresses were PO
Wace and PO Elphinstone. Next morning we visited the former
and had to wait in a short but slow queue. Serene Lo studied the
rogues’ gallery. Handsome Bryan Bryansk!, alias Anthony Bryan,
alias Tony Brown, eyes hazel, complexion fair, was wanted for
kidnapping. A sad-eyed old gentleman’sfaux pas was mail fraud,
and, as if that were not enough, he was cursed with deformed
arches. Sullen Sullivan came with a caution: Is believed armed,
and should be considered extremely dangerous. I f you want to
make a movie out of my book, have one of these faces gently melt
into my own, while I look. And moreover there was a smudgy
wi t h l o ’ s k n o w l e d g e

217

snapshot of a Missing Girl, age fourteen, wearing brown shoes
when last seen, rhymes. Please notify Sheriff Buller.
I forget my letters; as to Dolly’s, there was her report and a
very special-looking envelope. This I deliberately opened and
perused its contents. I concluded I was doing the foreseen since
she did not seem to mind and drifted toward the news-stand near
the exit.
‘Dolly-Lo: Well, the play was a grand success. All three hounds
lay quiet having been slightly drugged by Cutler, I suspect, and
Linda knew all your lines. She was fine, she had alertness and
control, but lacked somehow the responsiveness, the relaxed vitality,
the charm of my— and the author’s— Diana; but there was no
author to applaud us as last time, and the terrific electric storm
outside interfered with our own modest off-stage thunder. Oh
dear, life does fly. Now that everything is over, school, play, the
Roy mess, mother’s confinement (our baby, alas, did not live!),
it all seems such a long time ago, though practically I still bear
traces of the paint.
‘W e are going to New York after tomorrow, and I guess I can’t
manage to wriggle out of accompanying my parents to Europe.
I have even worse news for you. Dolly-Lo! I may not be back at
Beardsley if and when you return. With one thing and another,
one being you know who, and the other not being who you think
you know, Dad wants me to go to school in Paris for one year
while he and Fulbright are around.
‘As expected, poor Poet stumbled in Scene III when arriving at
the bit of French nonsense. Remember? Ne manque pas de dire a
ton amant, Chimene, comme le lac est beau car ilfaut quHl t'y mene. Lucky
beau! Qy?il t’y — What a tongue-twister! Well, be good, Lollikins.
Best love from your Poet, and best regards to the Governor.
Your Mona. PS. Because of one thing and another, my corre­
spondence happens to be rigidly controlled. So better wait till I
write you from Europe.’ (She never did as far as I know. The
letter contained an element of mysterious nastiness that I am too
tired today to analyse. I found it later preserved in one of the
Tour Books, and gave it here a titre documentaire. I read it twice.)
I looked up from the letter and was about to----- There was no
Lo to behold. While I was engrossed in Mona’s witchery, Lo had
shrugged her shoulders and vanished. ‘Did you happen to see---- ’
218

I asked of a hunchback sweeping the floor near the entrance. He
had, the old lecherer. He guessed she had seen a friend and had
hurried out. I hurried out too. I stopped— she had not. I hurried
on. I stopped again. It had happened at last. She had gone for
ever.
In later years I have often wondered why she did not go for
ever that day. Was it the retentive quality of her new summer
clothes in my locked car? Was it some unripe particle in some
general plan? Was it simply because, all things considered, I
might as well be used to convey her to Elphinstone— the secret
terminus, anyway? I only know I was quite certain she had left
me for ever. The non-committal mauve mountains half encircling
the town seemed to me to swarm with panting, scrambling, laugh­
ing, panting Lolitas who dissolved in their haze. A big W made
of white stones on a steep talus in the far vista of a cross street
seemed the very initial of woe.
The new and beautiful post office I had just emerged from
stood between a dormant movie house and a conspiracy of poplars.
The time was 9 a.m. mountain time. The street was Main Street.
I paced its blue side peering at the opposite one: charming it into
beauty, was one of those fragile young summer mornings with
flashes of glass here and there and a general air of faltering and
almost fainting at the prospect of an intolerably torrid noon.
Grossing over, I loafed and leafed, as it were, through one long
block: Drugs, Real Estate, Fashions, Auto Parts, Cafd, Sporting
Goods, Real Estate, Furniture, Appliances, Western Union,
Cleaners, Grocery. Officer, officer, my daughter has run away.
In collusion with a detective; in love with a blackmailer. Took
advantage of my utter helplessness. I peered into all the stores.
I deliberated inly if I should talk to any of the sparse footpassengers. I did not. I sat for a while in the parked car. I inspected
the public garden on the east side. I went back to Fashions and
Auto Parts. I told myself with a burst of furious sarcasm— un
ricanemenl— that I was crazy to suspect her, that she would turn
up in a minute.
She did.
I wheeled around and shook off the hand she had placed on
my sleeve with a timid and imbecile smile.
‘Get into the car,’ I said.
219

She obeyed, and I went on pacing up and down, struggling
with nameless thoughts, trying to plan some way of tackling her
duplicity.
Presently she left the car and was at my side again. M y sense of
hearing gradually got tuned in to station Lo again, and I became
aware she was telling me that she had met a former girl friend.
5Yes? Whom?’
‘A Beardsley girl.’
‘Good. X know every name in your group. Alice Adams?’
‘This girl was not in my group.5
‘Good. I have a complete student list with me. Her name
please.’
‘She was not in my school. She is just a town girl in Beardsley.5
‘ Good. I have the Beardsley directory with me too. W e’ll look
up all the Browns.’
‘ I only know her first name.’
‘Mary or Jane?’
‘No— Dolly, like me.5
‘So that’s the dead end’ (the mirror you break your nose
against). ‘Good. Let us try another angle. You have been absent
twenty-eight minutes. What did the two Dollys do?’
‘We went to a drugstore.5
‘And you had there----- ?’
‘Oh, just a couple of cokes.5
‘Careful, Dolly. We can check that, you know.5
‘A t least, she had. I had a glass of water.5
‘Good. Was it that place there?5
‘Sure.’
‘Good, come on, we’ll grill the soda jerk.5
‘W ait a sec. Come to think it might have been further down—
just around the corner.’
‘Come on all the same. Go in, please. Well, let’s see.’ (Opening
a chained telephone book.) ‘Dignified Funeral Service. No, not
yet. Here we are: Druggists-Retail. Hill Drug Store. Larkin’s
Pharmacy. And two more. That’s all Wace seems to have in the
way of soda fountains— at least in the business section. Well, we
will check them all.5
‘Go to hell,’ she said.
‘Lo, rudeness will get you nowhere.’
2 2 0

‘Okay/ she said. ‘But you’re not going to trap me. Okay, so
we did not have a pop. We just talked and looked at dresses in
show windows.’
‘Which? That window there for example?’
‘Yes, that one there, for example.’
‘Oh, Lo! Let’s look closer at it.’
It was indeed a pretty sight. A dapper young fellow was
vacuum-cleaning a carpet of sorts upon which stood two figures
that looked as if some blast had just worked havoc with them.
One figure was stark naked, wigless and armless. Its compara­
tively small stature and smirking pose suggested that when clothed
it had represented, and would represent when clothed again, a
girl child of Lolita’s size. But in its present state it was sexless.
Next to it, stood a much taller veiled bride, quite perfect and
iniacta except for the lack of one arm. On the floor, at the feet of
these damsels, where the man crawled about laboriously with his
cleaner, there lay a cluster of three slender arms, and a blonde
wig. Two of the arms happened to be twisted and seemed to
suggest a clasping gesture of horror and supplication.
‘Look, Lo,’ I said quietly. ‘Look well. Is not that a rather good
symbol of something or other? However’— I went on as we got
back into the car— T have taken certain precautions. Here
(delicately opening the glove compartment), on this pad, I have
our boy friend’s car number.’
As the ass I was I had not memorized it. W hat remained of it
in my mind were the initial letter and the closing figure as if the
whole amphitheatre of six signs receded concavely behind a tinted
glass too opaque to allow the central series to be deciphered, but
just translucent enough to make out its extreme edges— a capital
P and a 6. 1 have to go into those details (which in themselves can
interest only a professional psychologue) because otherwise the
reader (ah, if I could visualize him as a blonde-bearded scholar
with rosy lips sucking la pomme de sa came as he quaffs my manu­
script!) might not understand the quality of the shock I experi­
enced upon noticing that the P had acquired the bustle of a B
and that the 6 had been deleted altogether. The rest, with erasures
revealing the hurried shuttle smear of a pencil’s rubber end, and
with parts of numbers obliterated or reconstructed in a child’s
hand, presented a tangle of barbed wire to any logical interpreta­

tion. A ll I knew was the state— one adjacent to the state Beardsley
was in.
I said nothing. I put the pad back, closed the compartment,
and drove out o f W ace. Lo had grabbed some comics from the
back seat and, mobile-white-bloused, one brown elbow out of the
window, was deep in the current adventure of some clout or
clown. Three or four miles out of Wace, I turned into the shadow
of a picnic ground where the morning had dumped its litter of
light on an empty table, Lo looked up with a semi-smile of sur­
prise and without a word I delivered a tremendous backhand cut
that caught her smack on her hot hard little cheek-bone.
And then the remorse, the poignant sweetness of sobbing atone­
ment, grovelling love, the hopelessness of sensual reconciliation.
In the velvet night, at Mirana Motel (Mirana!) I kissed the
yellowish soles of her long-toed feet, I immolated myself. . . But
it was all of no avail. Both doomed were we. And soon I was to
enter a new cycle o f persecution.
In a street of Wace, on its outskirts . . . Oh, I am quite sure it
was not a delusion. In a street of Wace, I had glimpsed the Aztec
Red convertible, or its identical twin. Instead of Trapp, it con­
tained four or five loud young people of several sexes— but I said
nothing. After W ace a totally new situation arose. For a day or
two, I enjoyed the mental emphasis with which I told myself that
we were not, and never had been followed; and then I became
sickeningly conscious that Trapp had changed his tactics and was
still with us, in this or that rented car.
A veritable Proteus of the highway, with bewildering ease he
switched from one vehicle to another. This technique implied the
existence of garages specializing in 'stage-automobile’ operations,
but I never could discover the remises he used. He seemed to
patronize at first the Chevrolet genus, beginning with a Campus
Cream convertible, then going on to a small Horizon Blue sedan,
and thenceforth fading into Surf Grey and Driftwood Grey. Then
he turned to other makes and passed through a pale dull rainbow
of paint shades, and one day I found myself attempting to cope
with the subtle distinction between our own Dream Blue Melmoth and the Crest Blue Oldsmobile he had rented; greys, how­
ever, remained his favourite cryptochromism, and, in agonizing
nightmares, I tried in vain to sort out properly such ghosts as
2 2 2

Chrysler’s Shell Grey, Chevrolet’s Thistle Grey, Dodge’s French
G rey. . .
The necessity of being constantly on the lookout for his little
moustache and open shirt— or for his baldish pate and broad
shoulders— led me to a profound study of all cars on the road—
behind, before, alongside, coming, going, every vehicle under the
dancing sun: the quiet vacationist’s automobile with the box of
Tender-Touch tissues in the back window; the recklessly speeding
jalopy full of pale children with a shaggy dog’s head protruding,
and a crumpled mudguard; the bachelor’s tudor sedan crowded
with suits on hangers; the huge fat house trailer weaving in front,
immune to the Indian file of fury boiling behind it; the car with
the young female passenger politely perched in the middle of the
front seat to be closer to the young male driver; the car carrying
on its roof a red boat, bottom up . . . The grey car slowing up
before us, the grey car catching.up with us.
We were in mountain country, somewhere between Snow and
Champion, and rolling down an almost imperceptible grade,
when I had my next distinct view of Detective Paramour Trapp.
The grey mist behind us had deepened and concentrated into the
compactness of a Dominion Blue sedan. A ll of a sudden, as if the
ear I drove responded to my poor heart’s pangs, we were slither­
ing from side to side, with something making a helpless plapplap-plap under us.
‘You got a flat, mister,’ said cheerful Lo.
I pulled up— near a precipice. She folded her arms and put her
foot on the dashboard. I got out and examined the right rear
wheel. The base of its tyre was sheepishly and hideously square.
Trapp had stopped some fifty yards behind us. His distant face
formed a grease spot of mirth. This was my chance. I started to
walk towards him— with the brilliant idea of asking him for a
jack though I had one. He backed a little, I stubbed my toe
against a stone— and there was a sense of general laughter. Then
a tremendous truck loomed from behind Trapp and thundered
by me— and immediately after, I heard it utter a convulsive
honk. Instinctively I looked back— and saw my own car gently
creeping away. I could make out Lo ludicrously at the wheel,
and the engine was certainly running— though I remembered I
had cut it but had not applied the emergency brake; and during

the brief space of throb-time that it took me to reach the croaking
machine which came to a standstill at last, it dawned upon me
that during the last two years little Lo had had ample time to
pick up the rudiments of driving. As I wrenched the door open,
I was goddam sure she had started the car to prevent me from
walking up to Trapp. Her trick proved useless, however, for even
while I was pursuing her he had made an energetic U-turn and
was gone. I rested for a while. Lo asked wasn’t I going to thank
her— the car had started to move by itself and------Getting no
answer, she immersed herself in a study of the map. I got out
again and commenced the ‘ordeal o f the orb’, as Charlotte used
to say. Perhaps X was losing my mind.
W e continued our grotesque journey. After a forlorn and use­
less dip, we went up and up. O n a steep grade I found myself
behind the gigantic truck that had overtaken us. It was now
groaning up a winding road and was impossible to pass. Out of
its front part a small oblong of smooth silver— the inner wrapping
of chewing gum— escaped and flew back into our windshield. It
occurred to me that if I were really losing my mind, I might end
by murdering somebody. In fact— said high-and-dry Humbert to
floundering Humbert— it might be quite clever to prepare things
— to transfer the weapon from box to pocket— so as to be ready
to take advantage of the spell of insanity when it does come.

20
b y p e r m i t t i n g Lolita to study acting I had, fond fool, suffered

her to cultivate deceit. It now appeared th a tJit had not been
merely a matter of learning the answers to such questions as what
is the basic conflict in ‘Hedda Gabler’?, or where are the climaxes
in 'Love Under the Lindens’?, or analyse the prevailing mood of
‘Cherry Orchard’ ; it was really a matter of learning to betray me.

How I deplored now the exercises in sensual simulation that I had
so often seen her go through in our Beardsley parlour when I
would observe her from some strategic point while she, like a
hypnotic subject or a performer in a mystic rite, produced
sophisticated versions of infantile make-believe by going through
the mimetic actions of hearing a moan in the dark, seeing for the
first time a brand new young stepmother, tasting something she
hated, such as buttermilk, smelling crushed grass in a lush
orchard, or touching mirages of objects with her sly, slender,
girl-child hands. Among my papers I still have a mimeographed
sheet suggesting:
‘Tactile drill. Imagine yourself picking up and holding: a
pingpong ball, an apple, a sticky date, a new flannel-fluffed
tennis ball, a hot potato, an ice cube, a kitten, a puppy, a
horseshoe, a feather, a torchlight.
Knead with your fingers the following imaginary things: a
piece of bread, india rubber, a friend’s aching temple, a sample
of velvet, a rose petal.
You are a blind girl. Palpate the face of: a Greek youth,
Cyrano, Santa Claus, a baby, a laughing faun, a sleeping
stranger, your father.5
But she had been so pretty in the weaving of those delicate
spells, in the dreamy performance of her enchantments and duties!
On certain adventurous evenings, in Beardsley, I also had her
dance for me with the promise of some treat or gift, and although
these routine leg-parted leaps of hers were more like those o f a
football cheer-leader than like the languorous and jerky motions
of a Parisian petit rat, the rhythms of her not quite nubile limbs
had given me pleasure. But all that was nothing, absolutely
nothing, to the indescribable itch of rapture that her tennis game
produced in me— the teasing delirious feeling of teetering on the
very brink of unearthly order and splendour.
Despite her advanced age, she was more of a nymphet than
ever, with her apricot-coloured limbs, in her sub-teen tennis togs!
Winged gentlemen! No hereafter is acceptable if it does not pro­
duce her as she was then, in that Colorado resort between Snow
and Elphinstone, with everything right: the white wide little-boy
shorts, the slender waist, the apricot midriff, the white breastkerchief whose ribbons went up and encircled her neck to end
H

225

behind in a dangling knot leaving bare her gaspingly young and
adorable apricot shoulder blades with that pubescence and those
lovely gentle bones, and the smooth, downward-tapering back.
Her cap had a white peak. Her racket had cost me a small
fortune. Idiot, triple idiot! I could have filmed her! I would have
had her now with me, before my eyes, in the projection room of
my pain and despair!
She would wait and relax for a bar or two of white-lined time
before going into the act of serving, and often bounced the ball
once or twice, or pawed the ground a little, always at ease, always
rather vague about the score, always cheerful as she so seldom
was in the dark life she led at home. Her tennis was the highest
point to which I can imagine a young creature bringing the art of
make-believe, although I dare say, for her it was the very geo­
metry of basic reality.
The exquisite clarity of all her movements had its auditory
counterpart in the pure ringing sound of her every stroke. The
ball when it entered her aura of control became somehow whiter,
its resilience somehow richer, and the instrument of precision she
used upon it seemed inordinately prehensile and deliberate at the
moment of clinging contact. Her form was, indeed, an absolutely
perfect imitation of absolutely top-notch tennis— without any
utilitarian results. As Edusa’s sister, Electra Gold, a marvellous
young coach, said to me once while I sat on a pulsating hard
bench watching Dolores Haze toying with Linda Hall (and being
beaten by her): ‘Dolly has a magnet in the centre of her racket
guts, but why the heck is she so polite?’ Ah, Electra, what did it
matter, with such grace! I remember at the very first game I
watched being drenched with an almost painful convulsion of
beauty assimilation. M y Lolita had a way of raising her bent left
knee at the ample and springy start of the service cycle when there
would develop and hang in the sun for a second a vital web of
balance between toed foot, pristine armpit, burnished arm and
far back-flung racket, as she smiled up with gleaming teeth at the
small globe suspended so high in the zenith of the powerful and
graceful cosmos she had created for the express purpose of falling
upon it with a clean resounding crack of her golden whip.
It had, that serve of hers, beauty, directness, youth, a classical
purity of trajectory, and was, despite its spanking pace, fairly
226

3

ZW

easy to return, having as it did no twist or sting to its long
elegant hop.
That I could have had all her strokes, all her enchantments,
immortalized in segments of celluloid, makes me moan today with
frustration. They would have been so much more than the snap­
shots I burned! Her overhead volley was related to her service as
the envoy is to the ballade; for she had been trained, my pet, to
patter up at once to the net on her nimble, vivid, white-shod feet.
There was nothing to choose between her forehand and backhand
drives: they were mirror images of one another— my very loins
still tingle with those pistol reports repeated by crisp echoes and
Electra’s cries. One of the pearls of Dolly’s game was a short half­
volley that Ned In tarn had taught her in California*
She preferred acting to swimming, and swimming to tennis; yet
I insist that had not something within her been broken by me—
not that I realized it. then!— she would have had on the top of
her perfect form the will to win, and would have become a real
girl champion. Dolores, with two rackets under her arm, in
Wimbledon. Dolores endorsing a Dromedary. Dolores turning
professional. Dolores acting a girl champion in a movie. Dolores
and her grey, humble, hushed husband-coach, old Humbert.
There was nothing wrong or deceitful in the spirit of her game
— unless one considered her cheerful indifference toward its out­
come as the feint of a nymphet. She who was so cruel and crafty
in everyday life, revealed an innocence, a frankness, a kindness of
ball-placing, that permitted a second-rate but determined player,
no matter how uncouth and incompetent, to poke and cut his way
to victory. Despite her small stature, she covered the one thousand
and fifty-three square feet of her half of the court with wonderful
ease, once she had entered into the rhythm of a rally and as long
as she could direct that rhythm; but any abrupt attack, or sudden
change of tactics on her adversary’s part, left her helpless. At
match point, her second serve, which— rather typically— was
even stronger and more stylish than her first (for she had none of
the inhibitions that cautious winners have), would strike vibrantly
the harp-cord of the net— and ricochet out of court. The polished
gem of her dropshot was snapped up and put away by an
opponent who seemed four-legged and wielded a crooked paddle.
Her dramatic drives and lovely volleys would candidly fall at his

feet. Over and over again she would land an easy one into the
net— and merrily mimic dismay by drooping in a ballet attitude,
with her forelocks hanging. So sterile were her grace and whipper
that she could not even win from panting me and my oldfashioned lifting drive.
I suppose I am especially susceptible to the magic of games. In
my chess sessions with Gaston I saw the board as a square pool of
limpid water with rare shells and stratagems rosily visible upon
the smooth tessellated bottom, which to my confused adversary
was all ooze and squid-cloud. Similarly, the initial tennis coaching
I had inflicted on Lolita— prior to the revelations that came to
her through the great Californian’s lessons— remained in my
mind as oppressive and distressful memories— not only because
she had been so hopelessly and irritatingly irritated by every
suggestion of mine— but because the precious symmetry of the
court instead of reflecting the harmonies latent in her was utterly
jumbled by the clumsiness and lassitude of the resentful child I
mistaught. Now things were different, and on that particular day,
in the pure air of Champion, Colorado, on that admirable court
at the foot of steep stone stairs leading up to Champion Hotel
where we had spent the night, I felt I could rest from the night­
mare of unknown betrayals within the innocence of her style, of
her soul, of her essential grace.
She was hitting hard and flat, with her usual effortless sweep,
feeding me deep skimming balls— all so rhythmically co-ordinated
and overt as to reduce my footwork to, practically, a swinging
stroll— crack players will understand what I mean. M y rather
heavily cut serve that I had been taught by my father who had
learned it from Decugis or Borman, old friends of his and great
champions, would have seriously troubled my Lo, had I really
tried to trouble her. But who would upset such a lucid dear? Did
I ever mention that her bare arm bore the 8 of vaccination? That
I loved her hopelessly? That she was only fourteen?
An inquisitive butterfly passed, dipping, between us.
Two people in tennis shorts, a red-haired fellow, only about
eight years my junior, with sunburnt bright pink shins, and an
indolent dark girl with a moody mouth and hard eyes, about two
years Lolita’s senior, appeared from nowhere. As is common with
dutiful tyros, their rackets were sheathed and framed, and they

carried them not as if they were the natural and comfortable
extensions of certain specialized muscles, but hammers or blunderbusses or wimbles, or my own dreadful cumbersome sins. Rather
unceremoniously seating themselves near my precious coat, on a
bench adjacent to the court, they fell to admiring very vocally a
rally of some fifty exchanges that Lo innocently helped me to
foster and uphold— until there occurred a syncope in the series
causing her to gasp as her overhead smash went out of court,
whereupon she melted into winsome merriment, my golden pet.
I felt thirsty by then, and walked to the drinking fountain; ,
there Red approached me and in all humility suggested a mixed
double. ‘I am Bill Mead,* he said. ‘And that’s Fay Page, actress.
Maffy On Say’— he added (pointing with his ridiculously hooded
racket at polished Fay who was already talking to Dolly). I was
about to reply ‘Sorry, but----- ’ (for I hate to have my filly in­
volved in the chops and jabs of cheap bunglers), when a remark­
ably melodious cry diverted my attention: a bellboy was tripping
down the steps from the hotel to our court and making me signs.
I was wanted, if you please, on an urgent long distance call— so
urgent in fact that the line was being held for me. Certainly. I got
into my coat (inside pocket heavy with pistol) and told Lo I would
be back in a minute. She was picking up a ball— in the continental
foot-racket way which was one of the few nice things I had taught
her— and smiled— she smiled at me!
An awful calm kept my heart afloat as I followed the boy up
to the hotel. This, to use an American term, in which discovery,
retribution, torture, death, eternity appear in the shape o f a
singularly repulsive nutshell, was it. I had left her in mediocre
hands, but it hardly mattered now. I would fight, o f course. Oh,
I would fight. Better destroy everything than surrender her. Yes,
quite a climb.
A t the desk, a dignified, Roman-nosed man, with, I suggest, a
very obscure past that might reward investigation, handed me a
message in his own hand. The line had not been held after all.
The note said:
‘M r Humbert. The head of Birdsley [sic] School called.
Summer residence— Birdsley 2-8282. Please call back immedi­
ately, Highly important.
I folded myself into a booth, took a little pill, and for about

twenty minutes tussled with space-spooks. A quartet of proposi­
tions gradually became audible: soprano, there was no such
number in Beardsley; alto, Miss Pratt was on her way to England;
tenor, Beardsley School had not telephoned; bass, they could not
have done so, since nobody knew I was, that particular day, in
Champion, Colorado. Upon my stinging him, the Roman took
the trouble to find out if there had been a long distance call.
There had been none. A fake call from some local dial was not
excluded. I thanked him. He said: You bet. After a visit to the
purling men’s mom and a stiff drink at the bar, I started on my
return march. From the very first terrace I saw, far below, on
the tennis court which seemed the size of a school child’s illwiped slate, golden Lolita playing in a double. She moved like a
fair angel among three horrible Boschian cripples. One of these,
her partner, while changing sides, jocosely slapped her on her
behind with his racket. He had a remarkably round head and
wore incongruous brown trousers. There was a momentary
flurry— he saw me, and throwing his racket— mine!— scuttled up
the slope. He waved his wrists and elbows in would-be comical
imitation of rudimentary wings, as he climbed, bow-legged, to
the street, where his grey car awaited him. Next moment he and
the greyness were gone. When I came down, the remaining trio
were collecting and sorting out the bails.
‘M r Mead, who was that person?’
Bill and Fay, both looking very solemn, shook their heads.
That absurd intruder had butted in to make up a double,
hadn’t he, Dolly?
Dolly. The handle of my racket was still disgustingly warm.
Before returning to the hotel, I ushered her into a little alley halfsmothered in fragrant shrubs, with flowers like smoke, and was
about to burst into ripe sobs and plead with her imperturbed
dream in the most abject manner for clarification, no matter how
meretricious, of the slow awfulness enveloping me, when we found
ourselves behind the convulsed Mead twosome— assorted people,
you know, meeting among idyllic settings in old comedies. Bill
and Fay were both weak with laughter— we had come at the end
of their private joke. It did not really matter.
Speaking as if it really did not really matter, and assuming,
apparently, that .life was automatically rolling on with all its
230

routine pleasures, Lolita said she would like to change into her
bathing things, and spend the rest of the afternoon at the swim­
ming pool. It was a gorgeous day. Lolita!

21
sl o ! l o l a ! l o l i t a !’ I hear myself crying from a doorway into
the sun, with the acoustics of time, domed time, endowing my
call and its tell-tale hoarseness with such a wealth of anxiety,
passion and pain that really it would have been instrumental in
wrenching open the zipper of her nylon shroud had she been dead.
Lolita! In the middle of a trim turfed terrace I found her at last—
she had run out before I was ready. Oh, Lolita! There she was
playing with a damned dog, not me. The animal, a terrier of
sorts, was losing and snapping up again and adjusting between
his jaws a wet little red ball; he took rapid chords with his front
paws on the resilient turf, and then would bounce away. I had
only wanted to see where she was, I could not swim with my
heart in that state, but who cared— and there she was, and there
was I, in my robe— and so I stopped calling; but suddenly some­
thing in the pattern of her motions, as she dashed this way and
that in her Aztec Red bathing briefs and bra, struck me . . . there
was an ecstasy, a madness about her frolics that was too much of a
glad thing. Even the dog seemed puzzled by the extravagance of
her reactions. I put a gentle hand to my chest as I surveyed the
situation. The turquoise blue swimming pool some distance be­
hind the lawn was no longer behind that lawn, but within my
thorax, and my organs swam in it like excrements in the blue sea
water in Nice. One of the bathers had left the pool and, halfconcealed by the peacocked shade of trees, stood quite still,
holding the ends of the towel around his neck and following
Lolita with his amber eyes. There he stood, in the camouflage o
sun and shade, disfigured by them and masked by his owi

nakedness, his damp black hair or what was left of it, glued to his
round head, his little moustache a humid smear, the wool on his
chest spread like a symmetrical trophy, his navel pulsating, his
hirsute thighs dripping with bright droplets, his tight wet black
bathing trunks bloated and bursting with vigour where his great
fat bullybag was pulled up and back like a padded shield over
his reversed beasthood. And as I looked at his oval nut-brown
face, it dawned upon me that what I had recognized him by was
the reflection o f my daughter’s countenance— the same beatitude
and grimace but made hideous by his maleness. And I also knew
that the child, my child, knew he was looking, enjoyed the lechery
of his look and was putting on a show of gambol and glee, the
vile and beloved slut. As she made for the ball and missed it, she
fell on her back, with her obscene young legs madly pedalling in
the air; I could sense the musk of her excitement from where I
stood, and then I saw (petrified with a kind of sacred disgust) the
man close his eyes and bare his small, horribly small and even,
teeth as he leaned against a tree in which a multitude of dappled
Priaps shivered. Immediately afterwards a marvellous trans­
formation took place. He was no longer the satyr but a very goodnatured and foolish Swiss cousin, the Gustave Trapp I have
mentioned more than once, who used to counteract his ‘sprees’
(he drank beer with milk, the good swine) by feats o f weightlifting— tottering and grunting on a lake beach with his other­
wise very complete bathing suit jauntily stripped from one
shoulder. This Trapp noticed me from afar and working the towel
on his nape walked back with false insouciance to the pool. And
as if the sun had gone out of the game, Lo slackened and slowly
got up ignoring the ball that the terrier placed before her. Who
can say what heartbreaks are caused in a dog by our discontinuing
a romp? I started to say something, and then sat down on the
grass with a quite monstrous pain in my chest and vomited a
torrent of browns and greens that I had never remembered, .eating.
I saw Lolita’s eyes, and they seemed to be more calculating
than frightened. I heard her saying to a kind lady that her father
was having a fit. Then for a long time I lay in a lounge chair
swallowing pony upon pony of gin. And next morning I felt
strong enough to drive on (which in later years no doctor
believed).
832

22
th e t w o -room ca bi n

we had ordered at Silver Spur Court,
Elphinstone, turned out to belong to the glossily browned pinelog kind that Lolita used to be so fond of in the days of our carefree
first journey; oh, how different things were now! I am not re­
ferring to Trapp or Trapps. After all— well, really. . . . After all,
gentlemen, it was becoming abundantly clear that all those
identical detectives in prismatically changing cars were figments
of my persecution mania, recurrent images based on coincidence
and chance resemblance. Soyons logiques, crowed the cocky Gallic
part of my brain— and proceeded to rout the notion of a Lolitamaddened salesman or comedy gangster, with stooges, per­
secuting me, and hoaxing me, and otherwise taking riotous
advantage of my strange relations with the law. I remember
humming my panic away. I remember evolving even an explana­
tion of the ‘Birdsley5 telephone call. . . . But if I could dismiss
Trapp, as I had dismissed my convulsions on the lawn at Cham­
pion, I could do nothing with the anguish of knowing Lolita to
be so tantalizingly, so miserably unattainable and beloved on the
very eve of a new era, when my alembics told me she should stop
being a nymphet, stop torturing me.
An additional, abominable and perfectly gratuitous worry was
lovingly prepared for me in Elphinstone. Lo had been dull and
silent during the last lap— two hundred mountainous miles un­
contaminated by smoke-grey sleuths or zigzagging zanies. She
hardly glanced at the famous, oddly shaped, splendidly flushed
rock which jutted above the mountains and had been the take-off
for nirvana on the part of a temperamental show girl. The town
was newly built, or rebuilt, on the flat floor of a seven-thousand
foot high valley; it would soon bore Lo, I hoped, and we would
spin on to California, to the Mexican border, to mythical bays,
saguaro deserts, fatamorganas. Jose Lizzarrabengoa, as you re­
member, planned to take his Carmen to the Etats Unis. I conjured

*33

up a Central American tennis competition in which Dolores
Haze and various Californian schoolgirl champions would
dazzlingly participate. Good-will tours on that smiling level
eliminate the distinction between passport and sport. W hy did I
hope we would be happy abroad? A change of environment is the
traditional fallacy upon which doomed loves, and lungs, rely.
Mrs Hays, the brisk, brickly rouged, blue-eyed widow who ran
the motor court, asked me if I were Swiss perchance, because her
sister had married a Swiss ski instructor. I was, whereas my
daughter happened to be half Irish. I registered, Hays gave me
the key anck a twinkling smile, and, still twinkling, showed me
where to park the car; Lo crawled out and shivered a little: the
luminous evening air was decidedly crisp. Upon entering the
cabin, she sat down on a chair at a card table, buried her face in
the crook of her arm and said she felt awful. Shamming, I thought,
shamming, no doubt, to evade my caresses; I was passionately
parched; but she began to whimper in an unusually dreary way
when I attempted to fondle her. Lolita ill. Lolita dying. Her skin
was scalding hot! I took her temperature, orally, then looked up a
scribbled formula I fortunately had in a jotter and after labori­
ously reducing the, meaningless to me, degrees Fahrenheit to the
intimate centigrade of my childhood, found she had 40 •4, which
at least made sense. Hysterical little nymphs might, I knew, run
up all kinds of temperature— even exceeding a fatal count. And
I would have given her a sip of hot spiced wine, and two aspirins,
and kissed the fever away, if, upon an examination of her lovely
uvula, one of the gems of her body, I had not seen that it was a
burning red. T undressed her. Her breath was bittersweet. Her
brown rose tasted of blood. She was shaking from head to toe.
She complained of a painful stiffness in the upper vertebrae— and
I thought of poliomyelitis as any American parent would. Giving
up all hope of intercourse, I wrapped her up in a lap-robe and
carried her into the car. Kind Mrs Hays in the meantime had
alerted the local doctor. ‘You are lucky it happened here,5 she
said; for not only was Blue the best man in the district, but the
Elphins lone hospital was as modem as modern could be, despite
its limited capacity. With a heterosexual Erlkonig in pursuit,
thither I drove, half-blincled by a royal sunset on the lowland side
and guided by a little old woman, a portable witch, perhaps his
234

daughter, whom Mrs Hays had lent me, and whom I was never
to sec again. Dr Blue, whose learning, no doubt, was infinitely
inferior to his reputation, assured me it was a virus infection, and
when I alluded to her comparatively recent flu, curtly said this
was another bug, he had forty such cases on his hands; all of
which sounded like the ‘ague’ of the ancients. I wondered if I
should mention, with a casual chuckle, that my fifteen-year-old
daughter had had a minor accident while climbing an awkward
fence with her boy friend, but knowing I was drunk, I decided
to withhold the information till later if necessary. To an unsmiling
blonde bitch of a secretary I gave my daughter’s age as ‘prac­
tically sixteen’. While I was not looking, my child was taken away
from me! In vain I insisted I be allowed to spend the night on a
‘welcome’ mat in a corner of their damned hospital. I ran up
constructivistic flights of stairs, I tried to trace my darling so as
to tell her she had better not babble, especially if she felt as light­
headed as we all did. At one point, I was rather dreadfully rude
to a very young and very cheeky nurse with overdeveloped gluteal
parts and blazing black eyes— of Basque descent, as I learned.
Her father was an imported shepherd, a trainer of sheep dogs.
Finally, I returned to the car and remained in it for I do not
know how many hours, hunched up in the dark, stunned by m y
new solitude, looking out open-mouthed now at the dimly
illuminated, very square and low hospital building squatting in
the middle of its lawny block, now up at the wash of stars and the
jagged silvery ramparts of the haute montagne where at the moment
Mary’s father, lonely Joseph Lore, was dreaming o f Oloron,
Lagore, Rolas— que sais-jef— or seducing a ewe. Such-like fragrant
vagabond thoughts have been always a solace to me in
times of unusual stress, and only when, despite liberal libations,
I felt fairly numbed by the endless night, did I think of driving
back to the motel. The old woman had disappeared, and I was
not quite sure of my way. Wide gravel roads criss-crossed drowsy
rectangular shadows. I made out what looked like the silhouette
of gallows on what was probably a school playground; and in
another waste-like block there rose in domed silence the pale
temple of some local sect. I found the highway at last, and then
the motel, where millions of so-called ‘millers’, a kind of insect,
were swarming around the neon contours of ‘No Vacancy’ ; and,

when, at 3 a.m., after one of those untimely hot showers which
like some mordant only help to fix a man’s despair and weariness,
I lay on her bed that smelled of chestnuts and roses, and pepper­
mint, and the very delicate, very special French perfume I
latterly allowed her to use, I found myself unable to assimilate the
simple fact that for the first time in two years I was separated from
my Lolita. All at once it occurred to me that her illness was some­
how the development of a theme— that it had the same taste and
tone as the series of linked impressions which had puzzled and
tormented me during our journey; I imagined that secret agent,
or secret lover, or prankster, or hallucination, or whatever he
was, prowling around the hospital— and Aurora had hardly
‘warmed her hands’, as the pickers of lavender say in the country
of my birth, when I found myself trying to get into that dungeon
again, knocking upon its green doors, breakfastless, stool-less, in
despair.
This was Tuesday, and Wednesday or Thursday, splendidly
reacting like the darling she was. to some ‘serum’ (sparrow’s
sperm or dugong’s dung), she was much better, and the doctor
said that in a couple of days she would be ‘skipping’ again.
O f the eight times I visited her, the last one alone remains
sharply engraved on my mind. It had been a great feat to come
for I felt all hollowed out by the infection that by then was at
work on me too. None will know the strain it was to carry that
bouquet, that load of love, those books that I had travelled sixty
miles to buy: Browning’s Dramatic Works, The History of Dancing,
Clowns and Columbines, The Russian Ballet, Flowers of the Rockies,
The Theatre Guild Anthology, Tennis by Helen Wills, who had won
the National Junior Girl Singles at the age of fifteen. As I was
Staggering up to the door of my daughter’s thirteen-dollar-a-day
private room, Mary Lore, the beastly young part-time nurse who
had taken an unconcealed dislike to me, emerged with a finished
breakfast tray, placed it with a quick crash on a chair in the
corridor, and, fundament jigging, shot back into the room—
probably to warn her poor little Dolores that the tyrannic old
father was creeping up on crepe soles, with books and bouquet:
the latter I had composed of wild flowers and beautiful leaves
gathered with my own gloved hands on a mountain pass at sun­
rise (I hardly slept at all that fateful week).
236

Feeding my Carmencita well? Idly I glanced at the tray. On a
yolk-stained plate there was a crumpled envelope. It had con­
tained something, since one edge was torn, but there was no
address on it— nothing at all, save a phony armorial design with
‘Ponderosa Lodge5 in green letters; thereupon I performed a
chasse-croise with Mary, who was in the act of bustling out again—
wonderful how fast they move and how little they do, those
rumpy young nurses. She glowered at the envelope I had put
back, uncrumpled.
‘You better not touch,5she said, nodding directionally: ‘Could
burn your fingers.5
Below' my dignity to rejoin. A ll I said was:
cJg croyais que c’etait un bill— not a billet douxJ Then, entering
the sunny room, to Lolita: ‘Bonjour, mon petit.’
‘Dolores,5said Mary Lore, entering with me, past me, through
me, the plump whore, and blinking, and starting to fold very
rapidly a white flannel blanket as she blinked: ‘Dolores, your
pappy thinks you are getting letters from my boy friend. It’s me
(smugly tapping herself on the small gilt cross she wore) gets them.
And my pappy can parlay-voo as well as yours.5
She left the room. Dolores, so rosy and russet, lips freshly
painted, hair brilliantly brushed, bare arms straightened out on
neat coverlet, lay innocently beaming at me or nothing. O n the
bed table, next to a paper napkin and a pencil, her topaz ring
burned in the sun.
‘What gruesome funeral flowers,5 she said. ‘Thanks all the
same. But do you mind very much cutting out the Fi'ench? It
annoys everybody.5
Back at the usual rush came the ripe young hussy, reeking o f
urine and garlic, with the Desert Mews, which her fair patient
eagerly accepted, ignoring the sumptuously illustrated volumes I
had brought.
‘My sister Ann,5 said Mary (topping information with after­
thought), ‘works at the Ponderosa place.5
Poor Bluebeard. Those brutal brothers. Est-ce que tu ne m’aimes
plus, ma Carmen? She never had. A t the moment I knew my love
was as hopeless as ever— and I also knew the two girls were con­
spirators, plotting in Basque, or Zemfirian, against my hopeless
love. I shall go further and say that Lo was playing a double

game since she was also fooling sentimental M ary whom she had
told, I suppose, that she wanted to dwell with her fun-loving
young uncle and not with cruel melancholy me. And another
nurse whom I never identified, and the village idiot who carted
cots and coffins into the elevator, and the idiotic green love birds
in a cage in the waiting room— all were in the plot, the sordid
plot. I suppose Mary thought comedy father Professor Humbertoldi was interfering with the romance between Dolores and her
father-substitute, roly-poly Romeo (for you were rather lardy,
you know, Rom, despite all that ‘snow5 and ‘joy juice5).
M y throat hurt. I stood, swallowing, at the window and stared
at the mountains, at the romantic rock high up in the smiling
plotting sky.
‘M y Carmen,5 I said (I used to call her that sometimes) , ‘we
shall leave this raw sore town as soon as you get out of bed.5
‘Incidentally, I want all my clothes,5said thegitanilla, humping
up her knees and turning to another page.
‘ . . . Because, really,5 I continued, ‘there is no point in staying
here.5
‘There is no point in staying anywhere,5 said Lolita.
I lowered myself into a cretonne chair and, opening the
attractive botanical work, attempted, in the fever-humming hush
of the room, to identify my flowers. This proved impossible.
Presently a musical bell softly sounded somewhere in the
passage.
I do not think they had more than a dozen patients (three or
four were lunatics, as Lo had cheerfully informed me earlier) in
that show place of a hospital, and the staff had too much leisure.
However— likewise for reasons of show— regulations were rigid.
It is also true that I kept coming at the wrong hours. Not without
a secret flow of dreamy malice, visionary Mary (next time it will
be une belle dame toute en bleu floating through Roaring Gulch)
plucked me by the sleeve to lead me out. I looked at her hand;
it dropped. As I was leaving, leaving voluntarily, Dolores Haze
reminded me to bring her next morning. . . . She did not remem­
ber where the various things she wanted were. . . . ‘Bring me,5she
cried (out of sight already, door on the move, closing, closed),
'the new grey suitcase and Mother’s trunk5; but by next morning
I was shivering, and boozing, and dying in the motel bed she
238

had used for just a few minutes, and the best I could do under
the circular and dilating circumstances was to send the two bags
over with the widow’s beau, a robust and kindly trucker. I
imagined Lo displaying her treasures to Mary. . . . No doubt, I
was a little delirious— and on the following day I was still a
vibration rather than a solid, for when I looked out of the bath­
room window at the adjacent lawn, I saw Dolly’s beautiful young
bicycle propped up there on its support, the graceful front wheel
looking away from me, as it always did, and a sparrow perched
on the saddle— but it was the landlady’s bike, and smiling a little,
and shaking my poor head over my fond fancies, I tottered back
to my bed, and lay as quiet as a saint—
Saint, forsooth! While brown Dolores,
On a patch of sunny green
With Sanchicha reading stories
In a movie magazine—
—-which was represented by numerous specimens wherever
Dolores landed, and there was some great national celebration in
town judging by the firecrackers, veritable bombs, that exploded
all the time, and at 1.55 p.m. I heard the sound of whistling lips
nearing the half-opened door of my cabin, and then a thump
upon it.
It was big Frank. He remained framed in the opened door,
one hand on its jamb, leaning forward a little.
Howdy. Nurse Lore was on the telephone. She wanted to know
was I better and would I come today?
At twenty paces Frank used to look a mountain of health; at
live, as now, he was a ruddy mosaic of scars— had been blown
through a wall overseas; but despite nameless injuries he was able
to man a tremendous truck, fish, hunt, drink and buoyantly dally
with roadside ladies. That day, either because it was such a great
holiday, or simply because he wanted to divert a sick man, he had
taken off the glove he usually wore on his left hand (the one
pressing against the side o f the door) and revealed to the fas­
cinated sufferer not only an entire lack of fourth and fifth fingers,
but also a naked girl, with cinnabar nipples and indigo delta,
charmingly tattooed on the back of his crippled hand, its index
and middle digit making her legs while his wrist bore her flower-

crowned head. Oh, delicious . , . reclining against the woodwork,
like some sly fairy.
I asked him to tell Mary Lore I would stay in bed all day
and would get into touch with my daughter sometime tomorrow
if I felt probably Polynesian.
He noticed the direction of my gaze and made her right hip
twitch amorously.
‘Okey-dokey/ big Frank sang out, slapped the jamb, and,
whistling, carried my message away, and I went on drinking, and
by morning the fever was gone, and although I was as limp as a
toad, I put on the purple dressing gown over my maize yellow
pyjamas, and walked over to the office telephone. Everything was
fine. A bright voice informed me that yes, everything was fine,
my daughter had checked out the day before, around two, her
uncle, Mr Gustave, had called for her with a cocker spaniel pup
and a smile for everyone, and a black Gaddy Lack, and had paid
Dolly’s bill in cash, and told them to tell me I should not worry,
and keep warm, they were at Grandpa’s ranch as agreed.
Elphinstone was, and I hope still is, a very cute little town. It
was spread like a maquette, you know, with its neat green-wool
trees and red-roofed houses over the valley floor, and I think I
have alluded earlier to its model school and temple and spacious
rectangular bloq^B, some of which were, curiously enough, just
unconventional pastures with a mule or a unicorn grazing in the
young July morning mist. Very amusing: at one gravel-groaning
sharp turn I sideswiped a parked car but said to myself telestically
— and, telepathically (I hoped), to its gesticulating owner— that
I would return later, address Bird School, Bird, New Bird, the
gin kept my heart alive but bemazed my brain, and after some
lapses and losses common to dream sequences, I found myself in
the reception room, trying to beat up the doctor, and roaring at
people under chairs, and clamouring for Mary who luckily for
her was not there; rough hands plucked at my dressing gown,
ripping off a pocket, and somehow I seem to have been sitting
on a bald brown-headed patient, whom I had mistaken for Dr
Blue, and who eventually stood up, remarking with a pre­
posterous accent: ‘Now, who is nevrotic, I ask?’— and then a
gaunt unsmiling nurse presented me with seven beautiful, beautiful
books and the exquisitely folded tartan lap robe, and demanded a

receipt; and in the sudden silence I became aware of a policeman
in the hallway, to whom my fellow motorist was pointing me out,
and meekly I signed the very symbolic receipt, thus surrendering
my Lolita to all those apes. But what else could I do? One simple
and stark thought stood out and this was: ‘Freedom for the
moment is everything’. One false move— and I might have been
made to explain a life of crime. So I simulated a coming out of a
daze. To my fellow motorist I paid what he thought was fair. T o
Dr Blue, who by then was stroking my hand, I spoke in tears o f
the liquor I bolstered too freely a tricky but not necessarily
diseased heart with. To the hospital in general I apologized with
a flourish that almost bowled me over, adding however that I
was not on particularly good terms with the rest of the Humbert
clan. To myself I whispered that I still had my gun, and was still
a free man— free to trace the fugitive, free to destroy my brother.

a t ho u s a n d - mi le stretch of silk-smooth road separated Kasbeam, where, to the best of my belief, the red fiend had been
scheduled to appear for the first time, and fateful Elphinstone
which we had reached about a week before Independence Day.
The journey had taken up most of June for we had seldom made
more than a hundred and fifty miles per travelling day, spending
the rest of the time, up to five days in one case, at various stopping
places, all of them also pre-arranged, no doubt. It was that
stretch, then, along which the fiend’s spoor should be sought; and
to this I devoted myself, after several unmentionable days o f
dashing up and down the relentlessly radiating roads in the
vicinity of Elphinstone.
Imagine me, reader, with my shyness, my distaste for any

ostentation, my inherent sense of the comme it faut, imagine me
masking the frenzy of my grief with a trembling ingratiating smile
while devising some casual pretext to flip through the hotel
register: ‘O h,’ I would say, ‘I am almost positive that I stayed
here once— let me look up the entries for mid-June— no, I see I ’m
wrong after all— what a very quaint name for a home town,
Kawtagain. Thanks very much.’ Or: ‘I had a customer staying
here— I mislaid his address— may I . . . ?’ And every once in a
while, especially if the operator of the place happened to be a
certain type of gloomy male, personal inspection of the books was
denied me.
I have a memo here: between July 5 and November 18, when
I returned to Beardsley for a few days, I registered, if not actually
stayed, at 342 hotels, motels and tourist homes. This figure in­
cludes a few registrations between Chestnut and Beardsley, one
of which yielded a shadow of the fiend (‘N. Petit, Larousse, 111.’);
I had to space and time my inquiries carefully so as not to attract
undue attention; and there must have been at least fifty places
where I merely inquired at the desk— but that was a futile quest,
and I preferred building up a foundation of verisimilitude and
goodwill by first paying for an unneeded room. My survey showed
that of the 300 or so books inspected, at least twenty provided me
with a clue: the loitering fiend had stopped even more often than
we, or else— he was quite capable of that— he had thrown in
additional registrations in order to keep me well furnished with
derisive hints. Only in one case had he actually stayed at the same
motor court as we, a few paces from Lolita’s pillowr. In some in­
stances he had taken up quarters in the same or in a neighbouring
block; not infrequently he had lain in wait at an intermediate
spot between two bespoken points. How vividly I recalled Lolita,
just before our departure from Beardsley, prone on the parlour
rug, studying tour books and maps, and marking laps and stops
with her lipstick!
I discovered at once that he had foreseen my investigations and
had planted insulting pseudonyms for my special benefit. A t the
very first motel office I visited, Ponderosa Lodge, his entry, among
a dozen obviously human ones, read: Dr Gratiano Forbeson,
Mirandola, NY, Its Italian Comedy connotations could not fail
to strike me, of course. The landlady deigned to inform me that

the gentleman had been laid up for five days with a bad cold,
that he had left his car for repairs in some garage or other and
that he had checked out on July 4. Yes, a girl called Ann 1 -ore
had worked formerly at the Lodge, but was now married to a
grocer in Cedar City. One moonlit night I waylaid white-shoed
Mary on a solitary street; an automaton, she was about to shriek,
but I managed to humanize her by the simple act of falling on my
knees and with pious yelps imploring her to help. She did not
know a thing, she swore. Who was this Gratiano Forbeson? She
seemed to waver. I whipped out a hundred-dollar bill. She lifted
it to the light of the moon. £He is your brother,5 she whispered at
last. I plucked the bill out o f her moon-cold hand, and spitting out
a French curse turned and ran away. This taught me to rely on
myself alone. No detective could discover the clues Trapp had
tuned to my mind and manner. I could not hope, of course, he
would ever leave his correct name and address; but I did hope
he might slip on the glaze of his own subtlety, by daring, say, to
introduce a richer and more personal shot of colour than was
strictly necessary, or by revealing too much through a qualitative
sum of quantitative parts which revealed too little. In one thing
he succeeded: he succeeded in thoroughly enmeshing me and my
thrashing anguish in his demoniacal game. With infinite skill, he
swayed and staggered, and regained an impossible balance,
always leaving me >vith the sportive hope— if I may use such a
term in speaking of betrayal, fury, desolation, horror and hate—
that he might give himself away next time. He never did-—
though coming damn close to it. We all admire the spangled
acrobat with classical grace meticulously walking his tightrope in
the talcum light; but how much rarer art there is in the sagging
rope expert wearing scarecrow clothes and impersonating a
grotesque drunk! I should know.
The clues he left did not establish his identity but they reflected
his personality, or at least a certain homogeneous and striking
personality; his genre, his type of humour— at its best at least—
the tone of his brain, had affinities with my own. He mimed and
mocked me. His allusions were definitely highbrow. He was wellread. He knew French. He was versed in logodaedaly and logomancy. He was an amateur of sex lore. He had a feminine hand­
writing. He could change his name but he could not disguise,
243

no matter how he slanted them, his very peculiar t’s, w ’s and 1’s.
Quelquepart Island was one of his favourite residences. He did
not use a fountain pen which fact, as any psycho-analyst will tell
you, meant that the patient was a repressed undinist. One merci­
fully hopes there are water nymphs in the Styx.
His main trait was his passion for tantalization. Goodness, what
a tease the poor fellow was! He challenged my scholarship. I am
sufficiently proud of my knowing something to be modest about
my not knowing all; and I dare say I missed some elements in that
cryptogrammic paper chase. What a shiver of triumph and loath­
ing shook my frail frame when, among the plain innocent names
in the hotel recorder, his fiendish conundrum would ejaculate in
my face! I noticed that whenever he felt his enigmas were be­
coming too recondite, even for such a solver as I, he would lure
me back with an easy one. ‘Arsene Lupin* was obvious to a
Frenchman who remembered the detective stories of his youth;
and one hardly had to be a Goleridgian to appreciate the trite
poke of ‘A. Person, Porlock, England’. In horrible taste but
basically suggestive of a cultured man— not a policeman, not a
common goon, not a lewd salesman— were such assumed names
as ‘Arthur Rainbow’— plainly the travestied author of Le Bateau
Bleu— let me laugh a little too, gentlemen— and ‘Morris Schmetterling’, of UOiseau Ivre fame (touche, reader!). The silly but funny
‘D. Orgon, Elmira, N Y ’, was from Moliere, of course, and because
I had quite recently tried to interest Lolita in a famous eighteenthcentury play, I welcomed as an old friend ‘Harry Bumper,
Sheridan, W yo’. An ordinary encyclopaedia informed me who
the peculiar looking ‘Phineas Quimby, Lebanon, N H ’ was; and
any good Freudian, with a German name and some interest in
religious prostitution, should recognize at a glance the implication
of ‘Dr Kitzler, Eryx, Miss’. So far so good. That sort of fun was
shoddy but on the whole impersonal and thus innocuous. Among
entries that arrested my attention as undoubtable clues per se but
baffled me in respect to their finer points I do not care to mention
many since I feel I am. groping in a border-land mist with verbal
phantoms turning, perhaps, into living vacationists. Who was
‘Johnny Randall, Ramble, Ohio’? Or was he a real person who
just happened to write a hand similar to CN. S. Aristoff, Catagela,
■. N Y ’? What was the sting in ‘Catagela’? And what about ‘James

Manor Morell, Hoaxton, England’? ‘Aristophanes’, ‘hoax’— fine,
but what was I missing?
There was one strain running through all that pseudonymity
which caused me especially painful palpitations when I came
across it. Such things as ‘G. Trapp, Geneva, N Y ’ was the sign o f
treachery on Lolita’s part. ‘Aubrey Beardsley, Quelquepart
Island’ suggested more lucidly than the garbled telephone mes­
sage had that the starting-point of the affair should be looked for
in the East. ‘Lucas Picador, Merrymay, Pa.’ insinuated that my
Carmen had betrayed my pathetic endearments to the imposter.
Horribly cruel, forsooth, was ‘Will Brown, Dolores, Colo.’ The
gruesome ‘Harold Haze, Tombstone, Arizona’ (which at another
time would have appealed to my sense of humour) implied a
familiarity with the girl’s past that in nightmare fashion suggested
for a moment that my quarry was an old friend of the family,
maybe an old flame of Charlotte’s, maybe a redresser o f wrongs
(‘Donald Quix, Sierra, Nev.’). But the most penetrating bodkin
was the anagram-tailed entry in the register o f Chestnut Lodge
‘Ted Hunter, Cane, NH ’.
The garbled licence numbers left by all these Persons and
Orgons and Morells and Trapps only told me that motel keepers
omit to check if guests’ cars are accurately listed. References—
incompletely or incorrectly indicated— to the cars the fiend had
hired for short laps between Wace and Elphinstone were of course
useless; the licence of the initial Aztec was a shimmer o f shifting
numerals, some transposed, others altered or omitted, but some­
how forming interrelated combinations (such as ‘WS 1564’ and
‘SH 1616’, and ‘Q 32888’ or ‘C U 88322’) which however were so
cunningly contrived as to never reveal a common denominator.
It occurred to me that after he had turned that convertible
over to accomplices at Wace and switched to the stage-motor
car system, his successors might have been less careful and might
have inscribed at some hotel office the archetype o f those inter­
related figures. But if looking for the fiend along a road I knew
he had taken was such a complicated, vague and unprofitable
business, what could I expect from any attempt to trace unknown
motorists travelling along unknown routes?

245

24
by the time I reached Beardsley, in the course of the harrowing

recapitulation I have now discussed at sufficient length, a com­
plete image had formed in my mind; and through the— always
risky— process of elimination I had reduced this image to the only
concrete source that morbid cerebration and torpid memory
could give it.
Except for the Rev. Rigor Mortis (as the girls called him), and
an old gentleman who taught non-obligatory German and Latin,
there were no regular male teachers at Beardsley School. But on
two occasions an art instructor on the Beardsley College faculty
had come over to show the schoolgirls magic lantern pictures of
French castles and nineteenth-century paintings. I had wanted to
attend those projections and talks, but Dolly, as was her wont,
had asked me not to, period. I also remembered that Gaston had
referred to that particular lecturer as a brilliant gargon; but that
was all; memory refused to supply me with the name of tire
chateau-lover.
On the day fixed for the execution, I walked through the sleet
across the campus to the information desk in Maker Hall,
Beardsley College. There I learned that the fellow’s name was
Riggs (rather like that of the minister), that he was a bachelor,
and that in ten minutes he would issue from the ‘Museum’ where
he was having a class. In the passage leading to the auditorium
I sat on a marble bench of sorts donated by Cecilia Dalrymple
Ramble. As I waited there, in prostatic discomfort, drunk, sleepstarved, with my gun in my fist in my raincoat pocket, it suddenly
occurred to me that I was demented and was about to do some­
thing stupid. There was not one chance in a million that Albert
Riggs, Ass. Prof., was hiding my Lolita in his Beardsley home,
24 Pritchard Road. He could not be the villain. It was absolutely
preposterous. I was losing my time and my wits. He and she were
in California and not here at all.
246

Presently, I noticed a vague commotion behind some white
statues; a door— not the one I had been staring at— opened
briskly, and amid a bevy of women students a baldish head and
two bright brown eyes bobbed, advanced.
He was a total stranger to me but insisted we had met at a lawn
party at Beardsley School. How was my delightful tennis-playing
daughter? He had another class. He would be seeing me.
Another attempt at identification was less speedily resolved:
through an advertisement in one of L o ’s magazines I dared to get
in touch with a private detective, an ex-pugilist, and merely to
give him some idea of the method adopted by the fiend, I acquainted
him with the kind of names and addresses I had collected. He
demanded a goodish deposit and for two years— two years,
reader!— that imbecile busied himself with checking those non­
sense data. I had long severed all monetary relations with him
when he turned up one day with the triumphant information
that an eighty-year-old Indian by the name of Bill Brown lived
near Dolores, Colo.

this book is a b o u t Lolita; and now that I have reached the
part which (had I not been forestalled by another internal com­
bustion martyr) might be called ‘Dolores Disparue\ there would be
little sense in analysing the three empty years that followed.
While a few pertinent points have to be marked, the general
impression I desire to convey is of a side door crashing open in
life’s full flight, and a rush of roaring black time drowning with
its whipping wind the cry of lone disaster.
Singularly enough, I seldom if ever dreamed of Lolita as I
remembered her— as I saw her constantly and obsessively in my
conscious mind during my daymares and insomnias. More pre­

cisely: she did haunt my sleep but she appeared there in strange
and ludicrous disguises as Valeria or Charlotte, or a cross between
them. That complex ghost would come to me, shedding shift after
shift, in an atmosphere of great melancholy and disgust, and
would recline in dull invitation on some narrow board or hard
settee, with flesh ajar like the rubber valve of a soccer ball’s
bladder. I would find myself, dentures fractured or hopelessly
mislaid, in horrible chambres garnies where I would be entertained
at tedious vivisecting parties that generally ended with Charlotte
or Valeria weeping in my bleeding arms and being tenderly
kissed by my brotherly lips in a dream disorder of auctioneered
Viennese bric-a-brac, pity, impotence and the brown wigs of
tragic old women who had just been gassed.
One day I removed from the car and destroyed an accumula­
tion of teen-magazines. You know the sort. Stone age at heart;
up to date, or at least Mycenaean, as to hygiene. A handsome,
very ripe actress with huge lashes and a pulpy red underlip,
endorsing a shampoo. Ads and fads. Young scholars dote on
plenty of pleats— que c'etait loin, tout cela! It is your hostess’s duty
to provide robes. Unattached details take all the sparkle out of
your conversation. All of us have known ‘pickers’— one who picks
her cuticle at the office party. Unless he is very elderly or very
important, a man should remove his gloves before shaking hands
with a woman. Invite Romance by wearing the Exciting New
Tummy Flattener. Trims turns, nips hips. Tristram in Movielove.
Yessir! The Joe-Roe marital enigma is making yaps flap.
Glamorize yourself quickly and inexpensively. Comics. Bad girl
dark hair fat father cigar; good girl red hair handsome daddums
clipped moustache. Or that repulsive strip with the big gagoon
and his wife, a kiddoid gnomide. Et moi qui foffrais mon genie . . .
I recalled the rather charming nonsense verse I used to write her
when she was a child: ‘nonsense’, she used to say mockingly, ‘is
correct’.
The Squirl and his Squirrel, the Rabs and their Rabbits
Have certain obscure and peculiar habits,
Male humming birds make the most exquisite rockets.
The snake when he walks holds his hands in his pockets. . .
Other things of hers were harder to relinquish. U p to the end of
248

1949) I cherished and adored, and stained with my kisses and
merman tears, a pair of old sneakers, a boy’s shirt she had worn,
some ancient blue jeans I found in the trunk compartment, a
crumpled school cap, such-like wanton treasures. Then, when I
understood my mind was cracking, I collected these sundry be­
longings, added to them what had been stored in Beardsley— a
box of books, her bicycle, old coats, galoshes— and on her fifteenth
birthday mailed everything as an anonymous gift to a home for
orphaned girls on a windy lake, on the Canadian border.
It is just possible that had I gone to a strong hypnotist he might
have extracted from me and arrayed in a logical pattern certain
chance memories that I have threaded through my book with
considerably more ostentation than they present themselves with
to my mind even now when I know what to seek in the past. A t
the time I felt I was merely losing contact with reality; and after
spending the rest of the winter and most of the following spring
in a Quebec sanatorium where I had stayed before, I resolved
first to settle some affairs of mine in New York and then to pro­
ceed to California for a thorough search there.
Here is something I composed in my retreat:
Wanted, wanted: Dolores Haze.
Hair: brown. Lips: scarlet.
Age: five thousand three hundred days.
Profession: none, or ‘starlet’ .
Where are you hiding, Dolores Haze?
Why are you hiding, darling?
(I talk in a daze, I walk in a maze,
I cannot get out, said the starling.)
Where are you riding, Dolores Haze?
What make is the magic carpet?
Is a Cream Cougar the present craze?
And where are you parked, my car pet?
Who is your hero, Dolores Haze?
Still one of those blue-caped star-men?
Oh the balmy days and the palmy bays,
And the cars, and the bars, my Carmen!
249

Oh Dolores, that juke-box hurts!
Are you still dancin’, darlin’?
(Both in worn levis, both in torn T-shirts,
And I, in my corner, snarlin’).
Happy, happy is gnarled McFate
Touring the States with a child wife,
Ploughing his Molly in every State
Among the protected wild life.
My Dolly, my folly! Her eyes were vair,
And never closed when I kissed her.
Know an old perfume called Sole.il Vert?
Are you from Paris, mister?
Vautre soir un air froid d’opera, m'alita:
Sonfele— bienfol est qui s’y fie!
11 neige, le decor s’ecroide, Lolita!
Lolita, qu'ai-je fait de ta vie?
Dying, dying, Lolita Haze,
O f hate and remorse, I ’m dying.
And again my hairy fist I raise,
And again I hear you crying.
Officer, officer, there they go—
In the rain, where that lighted store is!
And her socks are white, and I love her so,
And her name is Haze, Dolores.
Officer, officer, there they are—
Dolores Haze and her lover!
Whip out your gun and follow that car.
Now tumble out, and take cover.
Wanted, wanted: Dolores Haze.
Her dream-grey gaze never flinches.
Ninety pounds is all she weighs
With a height of sixty inches.
My car is limping, Dolores Haze,
And the last long lap is the hardest,
And I shall be dumped where the weed decays,
And the rest is rust and stardust.

250

By psycho-analysing this poem, I notice it is really a maniac’s
masterpiece. The stark, stiff, lurid rhymes correspond very exactly
to certain perspectiveless and terrible landscapes and figures, and
magnified parts of landscapes and figures, as drawn by psycho­
paths in tests devised by their astute trainers. I wrote many more
poems. I immersed myself in the poetry of others. But not for a
second did I forget the load of revenge.
I would be a knave to say, and the reader a fool to believe, that
the shock of losing Lolita cured me of pederosis. M y accursed
nature could not change, no matter how my love for her did. On
playgrounds and beaches, my sullen and stealthy eye, against my
will, still sought out the flash of a nymphet’s limbs, the sly tokens
of Lolita’s handmaids and rose-girls. But one essential vision in me
had withered: never did I dwell now on possibilities of bliss with
a little maiden, specific or synthetic, in some out-of-the-way place;
never did my fancy sink its fangs into L olita’s sisters, far far away,
in the coves of evoked islands. That was all over, for the time
being at least. On the other hand, alas, two years of monstrous
indulgence had left me with certain habits of lust: I feared lest
the void I lived in might drive me to plunge into the freedom of
sudden insanity when confronted with a chance temptation in
some lane between school and supper. Solitude was corrupting
me. I needed company and care. M y heart was a hysterical un­
reliable organ. This is how Rita enters the picture.

she was t wi ce Lolita’s age and three-quarters of mine: a very
slight, dark-haired, pale-skinned adult, weighing a hundred and
five pounds, with charmingly asymmetrical eyes, an angular,
rapidly sketched profile, and a most appealing ensellure to her
stipple back I think she had some Spanish or Babylonian blood.

I picked her up one depraved M ay evening somewhere between
Montreal and New York, or more narrowly, between Toylestown
and Blake, at a darkislily burning bar under the sign of the Tigermoth, where she was amiably drunk: she insisted we had gone to
school together, and she placed her trembling little hand on my
ape paw. M y senses were very slightly stirred but I decided to
give her a try; I did— and adopted her as a constant companion.
She was so kind, was Rita, such a good sport, that I dare say she
would have given herself to any pathetic creature or fallacy, an
old broken tree or a bereaved porcupine, out of sheer chumminess
and compassion.
When I first met her she had but recently divorced her third
husband— and a little more recently had been abandoned by her
seventh cavalier servant— the others, the mutables, were too
numerous and mobile to tabulate. Her brother was— and no
doubt still is— a prominent, pasty-faced, suspenders-and-paintedtie-wearing politician, mayor and booster of his ball-playing,
Bible-reading, grain-handling home town. For the last eight years
he had been paying his great little sister several hundred dollars
per month under the stringent condition that she would never
never enter great little Grainball City. She told me, with wails of
wonder, that for some God-damn reason every new boy friend of
hers would first of all take her Grainball-ward: it was a fatal
attraction; and before she knew what was what, she would find
herself sucked into the lunar orbit of the town, and would be
following'the flood-lit drive that encircled it— ‘going round and
round5, as she phrased it, ‘like a God-damn mulberry moth5.
She had a natty little coupe; and in it we travelled to California
so as to give my venerable vehicle a rest. Her natural speed was
ninety. Dear Rita! We cruised together for two dim years, from
summer 1950 to summer 1952, and she was the sweetest, simplest,
gentlest, dumbest Rita imaginable. In comparison to her, Valechka
was a Schlegel, and Charlotte a Hegel. There is no earthly
reason why I should dally with her in the margin of this
sinister memoir, but let me say (hi, Rita— wherever you are,
drunk or hangoverish, Rita, hi!) that she was the .most soothing,
the most comprehending companion that I ever had, and cer­
tainly saved me from the madhouse. I told her I was trying to
trace a girl and plug tha^girl’s bully. R ita solemnly approved of

the plan— and in the course of some investigation she undertook
on her own (without really knowing a thing), around San Humbertino, got entangled with a pretty awful crook herself; I had
the devil of a time retrieving her— used and bruised but still
cocky. Then one day she proposed playing Russian roulette with
my sacred automatic; I said you couldn’t, it was not a revolver,
and we struggled for it, until at last it went off, touching off a very
thin and very comical spurt of hot water from the hole it made in
the wall of the cabin room; I remember her shrieks of laughter.
The oddly prepubescent curve of her back, her ricey skin, her
slow' languorous columbine kisses kept me from mischief. It is not
the artistic aptitudes that are secondary sexual characters as some
shams and shamans have said; it is the other way around: sex is
but the ancilla o f art. One rather mysterious spi ee that had in­
teresting repercussions I must notice, I had abandoned the search:
the fiend was cither in Tartary or burning away in my cerebellum
(the flames fanned by my fancy and grief) but certainly not
having Dolores Haze play champion tennis on the Pacific Coast.
One afternoon, on our way back East, in a hideous hotel, the
kind where they hold conventions and where labelled, fat, pink
men stagger around, all first names and business and booze— dear
Rita and I awoke to find a third in our room, a blonde, almost
albino, young fellow with white eyelashes and large transparent
ears, whom neither Rita nor I recalled having ever seen in our
sad lives. Sweating in thick dirty underwear, and withhold army
boots on, he lay snoring on the double bed beyond my chaste
Rita. One of his front teeth was gone, amber pustules grew on
his forehead. Ritochka enveloped her sinuous nudity in my rain­
coat— the first thing at hand; I slipped on a pair of candy-striped
drawers; and we took stock of the situation. Five glasses had been
used, which, in the way of clues, was an embarrassment o f riches.
The door was not properly closed. A sweater and a pair o f shape­
less tan pants lay on the floor. We shook their owner into miser­
able consciousness. He was completely amnesic. In an accent that
Rita recognized as pure Brooklynese, he peevishly insinuated that
somehow we had purloined his (worthless) identity. We rushed
him into his clothes and left him. at the nearest hospital, realizing
on the way that, somehow or other a£ter forgotten gyrations, we
were in Grainball. H alf a year later Rita wrote the doctor for

news. Jack Humbertson as he had been tastelessly dubbed was
still isolated from his personal past. Oh Mnemosyne, sweetest and
most mischievous of muses!
I would not have mentioned this incident had it not started a
chain of ideas that resulted in my publishing in the Cantrip Review
an essay on ‘Mimic and Memory’, in which I suggested among
other things that seemed original and important to that splendid
review’s benevolent readers, a theory of perceptual time based on
the circulation of the blood and conceptually depending (to fill
up this nutshell) on the mind’s being conscious not only of matter
but a Iso of its own self, thus creating a continuous spanning of two
points (the storable future and the stored past). In result of this
venture— and in culmination of the impression made by my
previous travaux— I was called from New York, where Rita and I
were living in a little flat with a view of gleaming children taking
shower baths far below in a fountainous arbour of Central Park,
to Cantrip College, four hundred miles away, for one year. I
lodged there, in special apartments for poets and philosophers,
from September 1951 to June 1953, while Rita whom I preferred
not to display vegetated— somewhat indecorously, I am afraid—
in a roadside inn where I visited her twice a week. Then she
vanished— more humanly than her predecessor had done*, a
month later I found her in the local jail. She was tres digne, had
had her appendix removed, and managed to convince me that
the beautiful bluish furs she had been accused of stealing from a
Mrs Roland MacCrum had really been a spontaneous, if some­
what alcoholic, gift from Roland himself. I succeeded in getting
her out without appealing to her touchy brother, and soon after­
wards we drove back to Central Park West, by way of Briceland,
where we had stopped for a few hours the year before.
A curious urge to relive my stay there with. Lolita had got hold
of me: I was entering a phase of existence where I had given up
all hope of tracing her kidnapper and her. I now attempted to fall
back on old settings in order to save what still could be saved in
the way of souvenir, souvenir que me veux-tu? Autumn was ringing in
the air. To a postcard requesting twin beds Professor Hamburg
got a prompt expression of regret in reply. They were full up.
They had one bathless basement room with four beds which they
thought I would not wafft. Their note paper was headed:

T he

Ench anted

H un ters

NO DOGS

NEAR CHURCHES

All legal beverages
I wondered if the last statement was true. All? Did they have
for instance sidewalk grenadine? I also wondered if a hunter,
enchanted or otherwise, would not need a pointer more than a
pew, and with a spasm of pain I recalled a scene worthy of a
great artist: petite nymphe accroupie\ but that silky cocker spaniel had
perhaps been a baptized one. No— I felt I could not endure the
throes of revisiting that lobby. There was a much better possibility
of retrievable time elsewhere in soft, rich-coloured, autumnal
Briceland, Leaving Rita in a bar, I made for the town library. A
twittering spinster was only too glad to help me disinter midAugust 1947 from the bound Briceland Gazette, and presently, in a
secluded nook under a naked light, I was turning the enormous
and fragile pages of a coffin-black volume almost as big as Lolita.
Reader! Bruderl What a foolish Hamburg that Hamburg was!
Since his supersensitive system was loath to face the actual scene,
he thought he could at least enjoy a secret part o f it— which re­
minds one of the tenth or twentieth soldier in the raping queue
who throws the girl’s black shawl over her white face so as not to
see those impossible eyes while taking his military pleasure in the
sad, sacked village. What I histed to get was the printed picture
that had chanced to absorb my trespassing image while the
the Gazette's photographer was concentrating on D r Braddock
and his group. Passionately I hoped to find preserved the portrait
of the artist as a younger brute. An innocent camera catching me
on my dark way to Lolita’s bed— what a magnet for Mnemosyne!
I cannot well explain the true nature of that urge of mine. It was
allied, I suppose, to that swooning curiosity which impels one to
examine with a magnifying glass bleak little figures— still life
practically, and everybody about to throw up— at an early morn­
ing execution, and the patient’s expression impossible to make out
in the print. Anyway, I was literally gasping for breath, and one
corner of the book of doom kept stabbing me in the stomach while
I scanned and skimmed-----Brute Force and Possessed were coming
on Sunday, the 24th, to both theatres. M r Purdom, independent
tobacco auctioneer, said that ever since 1925 he had been an

mp

Omen Faustum smoker. Husky Hank and his petite bride were
to be the guests of M r and Mrs Reginald G. Gore, 58 Inchkeith
Avenue. The size of certain parasites is one-sixth of the host.
Dunkerque was fortified in the tenth century. Misses’ socks, 39 c.
Saddle Oxfords, 3.98. Wine, wine, wine, quipped the author of
Dark Age who refused to be photographed, may suit a Persian
bubble bird, but I say give me rain, rain, rain on the shingle roof
for roses and inspiration every time. Dimples are caused by the
adherence of the skin to the deeper tissues. Greeks repulse a heavy
guerilla assault— and, ah, at last, a little figure in white, and
Dr Braddock in black, but whatever spectral shoulder was brush­
ing against his ample form— nothing of myself could I make out.
I went to find Rita w'ho introduced me with her vin triste smile
to a pocket-sized wizened truculently tight old man saying this
was— what was that name again, son?— a former schoolmate of
hers. He tried to retain her, and in the slight scuffle that followed
I hurt my thumb against his hard head. In the silent painted
park where I walked her and aired her a little, she sobbed and
said I would soon, soon leave her as everybody had, and I sang
her a wistful French ballad, and strung together some fugitive
rhymes to amuse her:
The place was called Enchanted Hunters. Query:
What Indian dyes, Diana, did thy dell
endorse to make of Picture Lake a very
blood bath of trees before the blue hotel?
She said: ‘Why blue when it is white, why blue for heaven’s
sake?’ and started to cry again, and I marched her to the car, and
we drove on to New York, and soon she was reasonably happy
again high up in the haze on the little terrace of our flat. I notice
I have somehow mixed up two events, my visit with Rita to
Briccland on our way to Cantrip, and our passing through Briceland again on our way back to New York, but such suffusions of
swimming colours are not to be disdained by the artist in re­
collection.

my l e t t e r b o x in t he entrance hall belonged to the type that

allows one to glimpse something of its contents through a glassed
slit. Several times already, a trick of harlequin light that fell
through the glass upon an alien handwriting had twisted it into
a semblance of Lolita’s script causing me almost to collapse as
I leant against an adjacent urn, almost my own. Whenever that
happened— whenever her lovely, loopy, childish scrawl was hor­
ribly transformed into the dull hand of one of my few corre­
spondents— I used to recollect, with anguished amusement, the
times in my trustful, pre-dolorian past when I would be misled
by a jewel-bright window opposite wherein my lurking eye, the
ever alert periscope of my shameful vice, would make out from
afar a half-naked nymphet stilled in the act of combing her
Alice-in-Wonderland hair. There was in the fiery phantasm a
perfection which made my wild delight also perfect, just because
the vision was out of reach, with no possibility of attainment to
spoil it by the awareness of an appended taboo; indeed, it may
well be that the very attraction immaturity has for me lies not so
much in the limpidity of pure young forbidden fairy child beauty
as in the security of a situation where infinite perfections fill the
gap between the little given and the great promised— the great
rose-grey never-to-be-hacl. Mes fenetres! Hanging above blotched
sunset and willing night, grinding my teeth, I would crowd all
the demons of my desire against the railing of a throbbing balcony:
it would be ready to take off in the apricot and black humid
evening; did take off— whereupon the lighted image would move
and Eve would revert to a rib, and there would be nothing in the
window but an obese partly clad man reading the paper.
Since I sometimes won the race between my fancy and nature’s
reality, the deception was bearable. Unbearable pain began when
chance entered the fray and deprived me of the smile meant for
me. ‘tSavez-vous qu'd dix ans ma petite etaitfolle de vons?’ said a woman

I talked to at a tea in Paris, and the petite had just married, miles
away, and I could not even remember if I had ever noticed her
in that garden, next to those tennis courts, a dozen years before.
And now likewise, the radiant foreglimpse, the promise of reality,
a promise not only to be simulated seductively but also to be
nobly held— all this, chance denied me— chance and a change
to smaller characters on the pale beloved writer’s part. M y fancy
was both Proustianized and Procrusteanized; for that particular
morning, early in September 1952, as I had come down to grope
for my mail, the dapper and bilious janitor with whom I was on
execrable terms started to complain that a man who had seen
Rita home recently had been ‘sick like a dog’ on the front steps.
In the process of listening to him and tipping him, and then
listening to a revised and politer version o f the incident, I had
the impression that one of the two letters which that blessed mail
brought was from Rita’s mother, a crazy little woman, whom we
had once visited on Gape God and who kept writing me to my
various addresses, saying how wonderfully well matched her
daughter and I were, and how wonderful it would be if we
married; the other letter which I opened and scanned rapidly in
the elevator was from John Farlow.
I have often noticed that we are inclined to endow our friends
with the stability of type that literary characters acquire in the
reader’s mind. No matter how many times we reopen ‘King
Lear’, never shall we find the good king banging his tankard in
high revelry, all woes forgotten, at a jolly reunion with all three
daughters and their lapdogs. Never will Emma rally, revived by
the sympathetic salts in Flaubert’s father’s timely tear. Whatever
evolution this or that popular character has gone through
between the book covers, his fate is fixed in our minds, and,
similarly, we expect our friends to follow this or that logical and
conventional pattern we have fixed for them. Thus X will never
compose the immortal music that would clash with the secondrate symphonies he has accustomed us to. Y will never commit
murder. Under no circumstances can Z ever betray us. W e have
it all arranged in our minds, and the less often we see a particular
person the more satisfying it is to check how obediently he con­
forms to our notion of him every time we hear of him. A ny devia­
tion in die fates we have ordained would strike us as not only

anomalous but unethical. W e would prefer not to have known at
all our neighbour, the retired hot-dog stand operator, i f it turns
out he has just produced the greatest book of poetry his age has
..■ seen. .
■ ■
.
y ■■■
I am saying all this in order to explain how bewildered I was
by Farlow’s hysterical letter. I knew his wife had died but I
certainly expected him to remain, throughout a devout widow­
hood, the dull, sedate and reliable person he had always been.
Now he wrote that after a brief visit to the US he had returned
to South America and had decided that whatever affairs he had
controlled at Ramsdale he would hand over to Jack Windmuller
of that town, a lawyer whom we both knew. He seemed parti­
cularly relieved to get rid of the Haze ‘complications’. He had
married a Spanish girl. He had stopped smoking and had gained
thirty pounds. She was very young and a ski champion. They
were going to India for their honeymonsoon. Since he was ‘build­
ing a family’ as he put it, he would have no time henceforth for
my affairs which he termed ‘very strange and very aggravating’ .
Busybodies— a whole committee of them, it appeared— had in­
formed him that the whereabouts of little Dolly Haze was un­
known, and that I was living with a notorious divorcee in Cali­
fornia. His father-in-law was a count, and exceedingly wealthy.
The people who had been renting the Haze house for some years
now wished to buy it. He suggested that I better produce Dolly
quick. He had broken his leg. He enclosed a snapshot of himself
and a brunette in white wool beaming at each other among the
snows of Chile.
I remember letting myself into my flat and starting to say:
Well, at least we shall now track them down— when the other
letter began talking to me in a small matter-of-fact voice:
D ear D ad :
How’s everything? I ’m married. I’m going to have a baby.
I guess he’s going to be a big one. I guess he’ll come right for
Christmas. This is a hard letter to write. I’m going nuts
because we don’t have enough to pay our debts and get out of
here. Dick is promised a big job in Alaska in his very specialized
corner of the mechanical field, that’s all I know about it but
it’s really grand. Pardon me for withholding our home address
but you may still be mad at me, and Dick must not know. This

town is something. Yon can’t see the morons for the smog.
Please do send us a check, Dad. We could manage with three
or four hundred or even less, anything is welcome, you might
sell my old things, because once we get there the dough will
just start rolling in. Write, please. I have gone through much
sadness and hardship.
Yours expecting,
D olly (Mrs R ichard F. Schiller)

2 8

1 was a g a i n on the road, again at the wheel of the old blue

sedan, again alone. Rita had still been dead to the world when I
read that letter and fought the mountains of agony it raised
within me. I had glanced at her as she smiled in her sleep and
had kissed her on her moist brow, and had left her for ever, with
a note of tender adieu which I taped to her navel— otherwise she
might not have found it.
‘Alone’ did I say? Pas tout d fait. I had my little black chum
with me, and as soon as I reached a secluded spot, I rehearsed
M r Richard F, Schiller’s violent death. I had found a very old
and very dirty grey sweater of mine in the back of the car, and this
I hung up on a branch, in a speechless glade, which I had reached
by a wood road from the now remote highway. The carrying out
of die sentence was a little marred by what seemed to me a certain
stiffness in the play of the trigger, and I wondered if I should get
some oil for the mysterious thing but decided I had no time to
spare. Back into the car went the old dead sweater, now with
additional perforations, and having reloaded warm Chum, I con­
tinued my journey.
. The letter was dated September 18, 1952 (this was Septem­
ber 22), and the address she gave was ‘General Delivery, Coalmont’ (not ‘V a .’, not ‘Pa.’, not ‘Tenn.’— and not Coalmont, any260

way— I have camouflaged everything, my love). Inquiries showed
this to be a small industrial community some eight hundred miles
from New York City. At first I planned to drive all day and all
night, but then thought better of it and rested for a couple of
hours around dawn in a motor court room, a few miles before
reaching the town. I had made up my mind that the fiend, this
Schiller, had been a car salesman who had perhaps got to know
my Lolita by giving her a ride in Beardsley— the day her bike
blew a tyre on the way to Miss Emperor— and that he had got
into some trouble since then. The corpse of the executed sweater,
no matter how I changed its contours as it lay on the back seat of
the car, had kept revealing various outlines pertaining to TrappSchiller— the grossness and obscene bonhomie o f his body, and
to counteract his taste of coarse corruption I resolved to make
xnyself especially handsome and smart as I pressed home the
nipple of my alarm clock before it exploded at the set hour of
6 a.m. Then, with the stern and romantic care o f a gentleman
about to fight a duel, I checked the arrangement o f my papers,
bathed and perfumed my delicate body, shaved my face and
chest, selected a silk shirt and clean drawers, pulled on trans­
parent taupe socks, and congratulated myself for having with me
i% my trunk some very exquisite clothes— a waistcoat with
n&creous buttons, for instance, a pale cashmere tie and so on.
/' I was not able, alas, to hold my breakfast, but dismissed that
physicality as a trivial contretemps, wiped m y mouth with a
-gossamer handkerchief produced from m y sleeve, and, with a
blue block of icc for heart, a pill on my tongue and solid death in
my hip pocket, I stepped neatly into a telephone booth in Coalmont (Ah-ah-ah, said its little door) and rang up the only Schiller
Paul, Furniture— to be found in the battered book. Hoarse
Paul told me he did know a Richard, the son o f a cousin of his,
and his address was, let me see, io K iller Street (I am not going
very far for my pseudonyms). Ah-ah-ah, said the little door.
A t to Killer Street, a tenement house, I interviewed a number
of dejected old people and two long-haired strawberry-blonde
incredibly grubby nymphets (rather abstractly, just for the heck
of it, the ancient beast in me was casting about for some lightly
clad child I might hold against me for a m inute, after the killing
was over and nothing mattered any more, and everything was

allowed). Yes, Dick Skiller had lived there, but had moved when
he married. Nobody knew his address. ‘They might know at the
store5, said a bass voice from an open manhole near which I
happened to be standing with the two thin-armed, barefoot little
girls and their dim grandmothers. I entered the wrong store and
a wary old Negro shook his head even before I could ask anything.
I crossed over to a bleak grocery and there, summoned by a
customer at my request, a woman’s voice from some -wooden abyss
in the floor, the manhole’s counterpart, cried out: Hunter Road,
last house.
Hunter Road was miles away, in an even more dismal district,
all dump and ditch, and wormy vegetable garden, and shack, and
grey drizzle, and red mud, and several smoking stacks in the dis­
tance. I stopped at the last ‘house5-—a clapboard shack, with two
or three similar ones farther away from the road and a waste of
withered weeds all around. Sounds of hammering came from
behind the house, and for several minutes I sat quite still in my
old car, old and frail, at the end of my journey, at my grey goal,
finis, my friends, finis, my fiends. The time was around two. M y
pulse was 40 one minute and 100 the next. The drizzle crepitated
against the hood of the car. M y gun had migrated to my right
trouser pocket. A nondescript cur came out from behind the
house, stopped in surprise, and started good-naturedly woofwoofing at me, his eyes slit, his shaggy belly all muddy, and then
walked about a little and woofed once more.

1 got out o r the car and slammed its door. How matter-of-fact,
how square that slam sounded in the void of the sunless day!
Woof, commented the dog perfunctorily. I. pressed the bell button,
it vibrated through my whole system. Personne. Je resonne. Reper262

sonne. From what depth this re-nonsense? Woof, said e °^‘
rush and a shuffle, and woosh-woof went the door.
Couple of inches taller. Pink-rimmed glasses. N eW’
hairdo, new ears. How simple! The moment, the dea
a
i
■ •
r ,1
• ■ fi»
3. bit of dry
kept conjuring up for three years was as simple as
, '
wood. She was frankly and hugely pregnant. Her hea oo e
smaller (only two seconds had passed really, but let rne give em
as much wooden duration as life can stand), aIlCy ^ ", ,
freckled cheeks were hollowed, and her bare shins an amis a
lost all their tan, so that the little hairs showed- o e wore a
brown, sleeveless cotton dress and sloppy felt slipPers'
, .
‘We— e— ell!’ she exhaled after a pause with all the emp asis
of wonder and welcome.
‘Husband at home?’ I croaked, fist in pocket.
I could not kill her, of course, as some have thong rt- on see
I loved her. It was love at first sight, at last sight, at ever an ever
sight.
A .
,
‘Gome in,’ she said with a vehement cheerful note, gams
e
splintery deadwood of the door, Dolly Schiller flattene lerse
as best she could (even rising on tiptoe a little) to let
Pass>aa
was crucified for a moment, looking down, smiling down at t e
threshold, hollow-cheeked with round pommettes,
w atere milk-white arms outspread on the wood. I passed widiout touc
ing her bulging babe. Dolly-smell, with a faint fried addition.
My teeth chattered like an idiot’s. ‘No, you stay ou t’ (t0 t e
She closed the door and followed me and her belly int0 tae ao ’
house parlour.
.
‘Dick’s down there,’ she said pointing with an invisible tennis
racket, inviting my gaze to travel from the drab parloni -bedroom
where we stood, right across the kitchen, and through the back­
doorway where, in a rather primitive vista, a dark-lia n ^d young
stranger in overalls, instantaneously reprieved, w as perched with
his back to me on a ladder fixing something near or upon the
shack of his neighbour, a plumper fellow with only ° ne arm’ wao
stood looking up.
This pattern she explained from afar, apologetically ( ^ en
be men’); should she call him in?
No.
Standing in the middle of the slanting room anc* e n d in g
263

questioning ‘hm’s’, she made familiar Javanese gestures with her
wrists and hands, offering me, in a brief display of humorous
courtesy, to choose between a rocker and the divan (their bed
after 10 p.m.). I say ‘familiar’ because one day she had welcomed
me with the same wrist dance to her party in Beardsley. We both
sat down on the divan. Curious: although actually her looks had
faded, I definitely realized, so hopelessly late in the day, how
much she looked— had always looked— like Botticelli’s russet
Venus— the same soft nose, the same blurred beauty. In my
pocket my fingers gently let go and repacked a little at the tip,
within the handkerchief it was nested in, my unused weapon.
‘That’s not the fellow I want,’ I said.
The diffuse look of welcome left her eyes. Her forehead
puckered as in the old bitter days:
‘Not who?’
‘Where is he? Quick!’
‘Look,’ she said, inclining her head to one side and shaking it
in that position. ‘Look, you are not going to bring that up.’
‘I certainly am,’ I said, and for a moment— strangely enough
the only merciful, endurable one in the whole interview— we were
bristling at each other as if she were still mine.
A wise girl, she controlled herself.
Dick did not know a thing of the whole mess. He thought I was
her father. He thought she had run away from an upper-class
home just to wash dishes in a diner. He believed anything. Why
should I want to make things harder than they were by raking up
all that muck?
But, I said, she must be sensible, she must be a sensible girl
(with her bare drum under that thin brown stuff), she must
understand that if she expected the help I had come to give, I
, must have at least a clear comprehension of the situation.
‘Come, his name!’
She thought I had guessed long ago. It was (with a mischievous
and melancholy smile) such a sensational name. I would never
believe it. She could hardly believe it herself.
His name, my fall nymph.
It was so unimportant, she said. She suggested I skip it. Would
I like a cigarette?
< No, His name.

She shook her head with great resolution. She guessed it was
too late to raise hell and X would never believe the unbelievably
unbelievable----I said I had better go, regards, nice to have seen her.
She said really it was useless, she would never tell, but on the
other hand, after all— ‘Do you really want to know who it was?
Well, it was----- 5
And softly, confidentially, arching her thin eyebrows and
puckering her parched lips, she emitted, a little mockingly, some­
what fastidiously, not untenderly, in a kind of muted whistle, the
name that the astute reader has guessed long ago.
Waterproof. Why did a flash from Hourglass Lake cross my
consciousness? I, too, had known it, without knowing it, all along.
There was no shock, no surprise. Quietly the fusion took place,
and everything fell into order, into the pattern of branches that
I have woven throughout this memoir with the express purpose
of having the ripe fruit fall at the right moment- yes, with the
express and perverse purpose o f rendering—-she was talking but I
sat melting in my golden peace— o f rendering that golden and
monstrous peace through the satisfaction of logical recognition,
which my most inimical reader should experience now.
She was, as I say, talking. It now came in a relaxed flow. He
was the only man she had ever been crazy about. What about
Dick? Oh, Dick was a lamb, they were quite happy together, but
she meant something different. And I had never counted, of course?
She considered me as if grasping all at once the incredible— and
somehow tedious, confusing and unnecessary— fact that the dis­
tant, elegant, slender, forty-year-old valetudinarian in velvet coat
sitting beside her had known and adored every pore and follicle
of her pubescent body. In her washed-out grey eyes, strangely
spectacled, our poor romance was for a moment reflected, pon­
dered upon, and dismissed like a dull party, like a rainy picnic to
which only the dullest bores had come, like a humdrum exercise,
like a bit of dry mud caking her childhood.
I just managed to jerk my knee out of the range of a sketchy
tap— one of her acquired gestures.
She asked me not to be dense. The past was the past. I had
been a good father, she guessed— granting me that. Proceed,
Dolly Schiller.
265

Well, did I know that he had known her mother? That he was
practically an old friend? That he had visited with his uncle in
Ramsdale?— oh, years ago— and spoken at Mother’s club, and
had tugged and pulled her, Dolly, by her bare arm on to his lap
in front of everybody, and kissed her face, she was ten and furious
with him? Did I know he had seen me and her at the inn where
he was writing the very play she was to rehearse in Beardsley,
two years later? Did I know— it had been horrid of her to side­
track me into believing that Clare was an old female, maybe a
relative of his or a sometime lifemate— and oh, what a close shave
it had been when the Wace Journal carried his picture.
The Briceland Gazette had not. Yes, very amusing.
Yes, she said, this world was just one gag after another, if
somebody wrote up her life nobody would ever believe it.
A t this point, there came brisk homey sounds from the kitchen
into which Dick and Bill had lumbered in quest of beer. Through
the doorway they noticed the visitor, and Dick entered the parlour.
‘Dick, this is my Dad!’ cried Dolly in a resounding violent
voice that struck me as totally strange, and new, and cheerful,
and old, and sad, because the young fellow, veteran of a remote
war, was hard of hearing.
Arctic blue eyes, black hair, ruddy cheeks, unshaven chin. We
shook hands. Discreet Bill, who evidently took pride in working
wonders with one hand, brought in the beer cans he had opened.
Wanted to withdraw. The exquisite courtesy of simple folks. Was
made to stay. A beer ad. In point of fact, I preferred it that way,
and so did the Schillers. I switched to the jittery rocker. Avidly
munching, Dolly plied me with marshmallows and potato chips.
The men looked at her fragile, frileux, diminutive, old-world,
youngish but sickly, father in velvet coat and beige vest, maybe a
viscount.
They were under the impression I had come to stay, and Dick
with a great wrinkling of brows that denoted difficult thought,
suggested Dolly and he might sleep in the kitchen on a spare
mattress. I waved a light hand and told Dolly who transmitted it
by means of a special shout to Dick that I had merely dropped in
on my way to Readsburg where I was to be entertained by some
friends and admirers. It was then noticed that one of the few
thumbs remaining to Bill was bleeding (not such a wonder­
266

worker after all). How womanish and somehow never seen that
way before was the shadowy division between her pale breasts
when she bent down over the man’s hand! She took him for
repairs to the kitchen. For a few minutes, three or four little
eternities which positively welled with artificial warmth, Dick
and I remained alone. He sat on a hard chair rubbing his fore­
limbs and frowning. I had an idle urge to squeeze out the black­
heads on the wings o f his perspiring nose with my long agate
claws. He had nice sad eyes with beautiful lashes, and very white
teeth. His Adam’s apple was large and hairy. W hy don’t they
shave better, those young brawny chaps? He and his Dolly had
had unrestrained intercourse on that couch there, at least a
hundred and eighty times, probably much more; and before that
— how long had she known him? No grudge. Funny— no grudge
at all, nothing except grief and nausea. He was now rubbing his
nose. I was sure that when finally he would open his mouth, he
would say (slightly shaking his head): ‘Aw, she’s a swell kid,
Mr Haze. She sure is. And she’s going to make a swell mother.’
He opened his mouth-—and took a sip of beer. This gave him
countenance— and he went on sipping till he frothed at the
mouth. He was a lamb. He had cupped her Florentine breasts.
His fingernails were black and broken, but the phalanges, the
whole carpus, the strong shapely wrist were far, far finer than
mine: I have hurt too much too many bodies with my twisted
poor hands to be proud of them. French epithets, a Dorset
yokel’s knuckles, an Austrian tailor’s flat fingertips— that’s
Humbert Humbert.
Good. If he was silent I could be silent too. Indeed, I could
very well do with a little rest in this subdued, frightened-to-death
rocking chair, before I drove to wherever the beast’s lair was—
and then pulled the pistol’s foreskin back, and then enjoyed the
orgasm of the crushed trigger: I was always a good little follower
of the Viennese medicine man. But presently I became sorry for
poor Dick whom, in some hypnotoid way, I was horribly pre­
venting from making the only remark he could think up (‘She’s
a swell kid . . .’),
‘And so,’ I said, ‘you are going to Canada?’
In the kitchen, Dolly was laughing at something Bill had said
or done.

‘And so,’ I shouted, ‘you are going to Canada? Not Canada’—
I re-shouted— ‘I mean Alaska, of course.’
He nursed his glass and, nodding sagely, replied: ‘Well, he cut
it on a jagger, I guess. Lost his right arm in Italy.’
Lovely mauve almond trees in bloom. A blown-off surrealistic
arm hanging up there in the pointillistic mauve. A flowergirl
tattoo on the hand. Dolly and band-aided Bill reappeared. It
occurred to me that her ambiguous, brown and pale beauty
excited the cripple. Dick, with a grin of relief stood up. He guessed
Bill and he would be going back to fix those wires. He guessed
M r Haze and Dolly had loads of things to say to each other. He
guessed he would be seeing me before I left. W hy do those people
guess so much and shave so little, and are so disdainful of hearing
aids?
‘Sit down,’ she said, audibly striking her flanks with her palms.
I relapsed into the black rocker.
‘So you betrayed me? Where did you go? Where is he now?’
She took from the mantelpiece a concave glossy snapshot. Old
woman in white, stout, beaming, bowlegged, very short dress;
old man in his shirtsleeves, drooping moustache, watch chain. Her
in-laws. Living with Dick’s brother’s family in Juneau.
‘Sure you don’t want to smoke?’
She was smoking herself. First time I saw her doing it. Sireng
mrboien under Humbert the Terrible. Gracefully, in a blue mist,
Charlotte Haze rose from her grave. I would find him through
Uncle Ivory if she refused.
‘Betrayed you? No.5 She directed the dart of her cigarette,
index rapidly tapping upon it, toward the hearth exactly as her
mother used to do, and then, like her mother, oh my God, with
her fingernail scratched and removed a fragment of cigarette
paper from her underlip. No. She had not betrayed me. I -was
among friends, Edusa had warned her that Cue liked little girls,
had been almost jailed once, in fact (nice fact), and he knew she
knew. Yes. .. . Elbow in palm, puff, smile, exhaled smoke, darting
gesture. Waxing reminiscent. He saw— smiling— through every­
thing and everybody, became he was not like me and her but a
genius. A great guy. Full of fun. Had rocked with laughter when
she confessed about me and her, and said he had thought so. It
was quite safe, under the circumstances, to tell him. . . .

Well, Cue— they all called him Cue.
Her camp five years ago. Curious coincidence . . . took her to a
dude ranch about a day’s drive from Elephant (Elphinstone).
Named? Oh, some silly name— Duk Duk Ranch— -you know just
plain silly— but it did not matter now, anyway, because the place
had vanished and disintegrated. Really, she meant, I could not
imagine how utterly lush that ranch was, she meant it had every­
thing but everything, even an indoor waterfall. Did I remember
the red-haired guy we (‘we’ was good) had once had some tennis
with? Well, the place really belonged to R ed’s brother, but he
had turned it over to Cue for the summer. When Cue and she
came, the others had them actually go through a coronation
ceremony and then— a terrific ducking, as when you cross the
Equator. Tou know.
Her eyes rolled in synthetic resignation.
‘Go on, please.’
Well. The idea was he would take her in September to Holly­
wood and arrange a tryout for her, a bit part in the tennis-match
scene of a movie picture based on a play of his— Golden Guts— and
perhaps even have her double one of its sensational starlets on the
Klieg-struck tennis court. Alas, it never came to that.
‘Where is the hog now?’
He was not a hog. He was a great guy in many respects. But it
was all drink and drugs. And, o f course, he was a complete freak
in sex matters, and his friends were his slaves. I just could not
imagine (I, Humbert, could not imagine!) what they all did at
Duk Duk Ranch. She refused to take part because she loved him,
and he threw her out.
‘What things?’
‘Oh, weird, filthy, fancy things. I mean, he had two girls and
two boys,^ and three or four men, and the idea was for all of us
to tangle in the nude while an old woman took movie pictures.’
(Sade’s Justine was twelve at the start.)
‘What things exactly?’
‘Oh, things. . . . Oh, I— really F — she uttered the T as a
subdued cry while she listened to the source of the ache, and for
lack of words spread the five fingers of her angularly up-anddown-moving hand. No, she gave it up, she refused to go into
particulars with that baby inside her.

That made sense.
‘It is of no importance now,5 she said pounding a grey cushion
with her fist and then lying back, belly up, on the divan. ‘Crazy
things, filthy things. I said no, I ’m just not going to [she used, in
allinsouciance really, a disgusting slang term which, in a literal
French translation, would be souffler] your beastly boys, because
I want only you. Well, he kicked me out.’
There was not much else to tell. That winter 1949, Fay and
she had found jobs. For almost two years she had— oh, just drifted,
oh, doing some restaurant work in small places, and then she had
met Dick. No, she did not know where the other was. In New
York, she guessed. O f course, he was so famous she would have
found him at once if she had wanted. Fay had tried to get back
to the Ranch— and it just was not there any more— it had burned
to the ground, nothing remained, just a charred heap of rubbish.
It was so strange, so strange.
She closed her eyes and opened her mouth, leaning back on the
cushion, one felted foot on the floor. The wooden floor slanted, a
little steel ball would have rolled into the kitchen. I knew all I
wanted to know. I had no intention of torturing my darling.
Somewhere beyond Bill’s shack an afterwork radio had begun
singing of folly and fate, and there she was with her ruined looks
and her adult, rope-veined narrow hands and her goose-flesh
white arms, and her shallow ears, and her unkempt armpits,
there she was (my Lolita!), hopelessly worn at seventeen, with
that baby, dreaming already in her of becoming a big shot and
retiring around 2020 a .d .— and I looked and looked at her, and
knew as clearly as I know I am to die, that I loved her more than
anything I had ever seen or imagined on earth, or hoped for any­
where else. She was only the faint violet whiff and dead leaf echo
of the nymphet I had rolled myself upon with such cries in the
past; an echo on the brink of a russet ravine, with a far wood
under a white sky, and brown leaves choking the brook, and one
last cricket in the crisp weeds . . . but thank God it was not that
echo alone that I worshipped. What I used to pamper among the
tangled vines of my heart, mon grand peche radieux, had dwindled
to its essence: sterile and selfish vice, all that I cancelled and
cursed. You may jeer at me, and threaten to clear the court, but
until I am gagged and half-throttled, I will shout my poor truth.

I insist the world know how much I loved my Lolita, this Lolita,
pale and polluted, and big with another’s child, but still greyeyed, still sooty-lashed, still auburn and almond, still Carmencita,
still mine; Changeons de vie, ma Carmen, allons vivre quelque part oil
nous ne seronsjamais separes; Ohio? The wilds of Massachusetts? No
matter, even if those eyes of hers would fade to myopic fish, and
her nipples swell and crack, and her lovely young velvety delicate
delta be tainted and torn— even then I would go mad with
tenderness at the mere sight of your dear wan face, at the mere
sound of your raucous young voice, my Lolita.
‘Lolita,’ I said, ‘this may be neither here nor there but I have
to say it. Life is very short. From here to that old car you know
so well there is a stretch of twenty, twenty-five paces. It is a very
short walk. Make those twenty-five steps. Now. Right now. Come
just as you are. And we shall live happily ever after.’
Carmen, voulez-vous venir avec moi?
‘You mean,’ she said opening her eyes and raising herself
slightly, the snake that may strike, ‘you mean you will give us [us]
that money only if I go with you to a motel. Is that what you
mean?5
‘No,’ I said, ‘you got it all wrong. I want you to leave your in­
cidental Dick, and this awful hole, and come to live with me, and
die with me, and everything with me’ (words to that effect).
‘You’re crazy,’ she said, her features working.
‘Think it over, Lolita. There are no strings attached. Except,
perhaps— well, no matter.’ (A reprieve, I wanted to say but
did not.) ‘Anyway, if you refuse you will still get your . . .
trousseau.’

‘No kidding?’ asked Dolly.
I handed her an envelope with four hundred dollars in cash
and a cheque for three thousand six hundred more.
Gingerly, uncertainly, she received mon petit cadeau; and then
her forehead became a beautiful pink. ‘You mean,’ she said,
with agonized emphasis, ‘you are giving us four thousand bucks?'
I covered my face with my hand and broke into the hottest tears
I had ever shed. I felt them winding through my fingers and
down my chin, and burning me, and my nose got clogged, and
I could not stop, and then she touched my wrist.
‘I’ll die if you touch me,’ I said. ‘You are sure you are not
271

coming with me? Is there no hope of your coming? Tell me only
this.’
‘No,’ she said. ‘No, honey, no.’
She had never called me honey before.
‘No,5 she said, ‘it is quite out of the question. I would sooner
go back to Cue. I mean----- ’
She groped for words. I supplied them mentally (‘He broke
my heart. You merely broke my life5).
‘I think,5 she went on— ‘oops’— the envelope skidded to the
floor— she picked it up— ‘I think it’s oh utterly grand of you to
give us all that dough. It settles everything, we can start next
week. Stop crying, please. You should understand. Let me get
you some more beer. Oh, don’t cry, I ’m so sorry I cheated so
much, but that’s the way things are.’
I wiped my face and my fingers. She smiled at the cadeau. She
exulted. She wanted to call Dick. I said I would have to leave in
a moment, did not want to see him at all, at all. We tried to
think of some subject of conversation. For some reason, I kept
seeing— it trembled and silkily glowed on my damp retina— a
radiant child of twelve, sitting on a threshold, ‘pinging’ pebbles
at an empty can. I almost said— trying to find some casual remark
— ‘I wonder sometimes what has become of the little McCoo girl,
did she ever get better?5— but stopped in time lest she rejoin:
‘I wonder sometimes what has become of the little Haze girl. . . .’
Finally, I reverted to money matters. That sum, I said, repre­
sented more or less the net rent from her mother’s house; she said:
‘Had it not been sold years ago?’ No (I admit I had told her this
in order to sever all connections with R .); n lawyer would send
a full account of the financial situation later; it was rosy; some
of the small securities her mother had owned had gone up and up.
Yes, I was quite sure I had to go. I had to go, and find him, and
destroy him.
Since I would not have survived the touch of her lips, I kept
retreating in a mincing dance, at every step she and her belly
, made toward me.
She and the dog saw me off. I was surprised (this a rhetorical
figure, I was not) that the sight of the old car in which she had
ridden as a child and a nymphet left her so very indifferent. All
she remarked was it was getting sort of purplish about the gills.

272

I said it was hers, I could go by bus. She said don’t be silly, they
would fly to Jupiter and buy a car there. I said I would buy this
one from her for five hundred dollars.
‘At this rate we’ll be millionnaires next,’ she said to the ecstatic
dog.
Carmencita, tui demandais-je. . . . ‘One last word,’ I said in my
horrible careful English, ‘are you quite, quite sure that— well, not
tomorrow, of course, and not after tomorrow, but— well— some
day, any day, you will not come to live with me? I will create a
brand new God and thank him with piercing cries, if you give
me that microscopic hope’ (to that effect).
‘No,’ she said smiling, ‘no.’
‘It would have made all the difference,’ said Humbert Hum­
bert. ■■
Then I pulled out my automatic— I mean, this is the kind of
fool thing a reader might suppose I did. It never even occurred
to me to do it.
‘Good by-aye!’ she chanted, my American sweet immortal
dead love; for she is dead and immortal if you are reading this. I
mean, such is the formal agreement with the so-called authorities.
Then, as I drove away, I heard her shout in a vibrant voice to
her Dick; and the dog started to lope alongside my car like a fat
dolphin, but he was too heavy and old, and very soon gave up.
And presently I was driving through the drizzle of the dying
day, with the windshield wipers in full action but unable to cope
with my tears.

l e a v i n g as i did Coalmont around four in the afternoon (by
Route X — I do not remember the number), I might have made
Ramsdale by dawn had not a short-cut tempted me. I had to

273

get on to Highway Y. M y map showed quite blandly that just
beyond Woodbine, which I reached at nightfall, I could leave
paved X and reach paved Y by means of a transverse dirt road.
It was only some forty miles long according to my map. Other­
wise I would have to follow X for another hundred miles and then
use leisurely looping Z to get to Y and my destination. However,
the short cut in question got worse and worse, bumpier and
bumpier, muddier and muddier, and when I attempted to turn
back after some ten miles of purblind, tortuous and tortoise-slow
progress, my old and weak Melmoth got stuck in deep clay. All
was dark and muggy, and hopeless. M y headlights hung over a
broad ditch full of water. The surrounding country, if any, was a
black wilderness. I sought to extricate myself but my rear wheels
only whined in slosh and anguish. Cursing my plight, I took off
my fancy clothes, changed into slacks, pulled on the bullet-riddled
sweater, and waded four miles back to a roadside farm. It started
to rain on the way but I had not the strength to go back for a
mackintosh. Such incidents have convinced me that my heart is
basically sound despite recent diagnoses. Around midnight, a
wrecker dragged my car out. I navigated back to Highway X
and travelled on. Utter weariness overtook me an hour later, in
an anonymous little town. I pulled up at the curb and in darkness
drank deep from a friendly flask.
The rain had been cancelled miles before. It was a black warm
night, somewhere in Appalachia. Now and then cars passed me,
red tail-lights receding, white headlights advancing, but the town
was dead. Nobody strolled and laughed on the sidewalks as
relaxing burghers would in sweet, mellow, rqtting Europe. I was
alone to enjoy the innocent night and my terrible thoughts., A
wire receptacle on the curb was very particular about acceptable
contents: Sweepings. Paper. No Garbage. Sherry-red letters of
light marked a Camera Shop. A large thermometer with the
name of a laxative quietly dwelt on the front of a drugstore.
Rubinov’s Jewellery Company had a display of artificial dia­
monds reflected in a red miri'or. A lighted green clock swam in
,i,the linenish depths of Jiffy Jeff Laundry. On the other side of the
street a garage said in its sleep— genuflexion lubricity; and
corrected itself to Gulflex Lubrication. An aeroplane, also
gemmed by Rubinov, passed, droning, in the velvet heavens.

How many small dead-of-night towns I had seen! This was not
yet the last.
Let me dally a little, he is as good as destroyed. Some way
further across the street, neon lights flickered twice slower than
my heart: the outline of a restaurant sign, a large coffec-pot, kept
bursting, every full second or so, into emerald life, and every
time it wrent out, pink letters saying Fine Foods relayed it, but
the pot could still be made out as a latent shadow teasing the eye
before its next emerald resurrection. We made shadowgraphs.
This furtive burg was not far from The Enchanted Hunters. I was
weeping again, drunk on the impossible past.

at this s o l i t a r y stop for refreshments between Coalmont and

Ramsdale (between innocent Dolly Schiller and jovial Uncle
Ivor), I reviewed my case. With the utmost simplicity and
clarity I now saw myself and my love. Previous attempts seemed
out of focus in comparison. A couple o f years before, under the
guidance of an intelligent French-speaking confessor, to whom,
in a moment of metaphysical curiosity, I had turned over a
Protestant’s drab atheism for an old-fashioned popish cure, I had
hoped to deduce from my sense of sin the existence of a Supreme
Being, On those frosty mornings in rime-laced Quebec, the good
priest worked on me with the finest tenderness and understanding.
I am infinitely obliged to him and the great Institution he repre­
sented. Alas, I was unable to transcend the simple human fact
that whatever spiritual solace I might find, whatever lithophanic
eternities might be provided for me, nothing could make my
Lolita forget the foul lust I had inflicted upon her. Unless it can
be proven to me— to me as I am now, today, with my heart and
my beard, and my putrefaction— that in the infinite run it does
275

not matter a jot that a North American girl-child named Dolores
Haze had been deprived of her childhood by a maniac, unless
this can be proven (and if it can, then life is a joke), I see nothing
for the treatment of my misery but the melancholy and very local
palliative of articulate art. To quote an old poet:
The moral sense in mortals is the duty
W e have to pay on mortal sense of beauty.

t h e r e was t h e d a y , during our first trip— our first circle of
paradise— when in order to enjoy my phantasms in peace I firmly
decided to ignore what I could not help perceiving, the fact that
I was to her not a boy friend, not a glamour man, not a pal, not
even a person at all, but just two eyes and a foot of engorged
brawn— to mention only mentionable matters. There was the
day when having withdrawn the functional promise I had made
her on the eve (whatever she had set her funny little heart on—
a roller rink with some special plastic floor or a movie matinee to
which she wa-nted to go alone), I happened to glimpse from the
bathroom, through a chance combination of mirror aslant and
door ajar, a look on her face . . , that look I cannot exactly
describe . . . an expression of helplessness so perfect that it seemed
to grade into one of rather comfortable inanity just because this
was the very limit of injustice and frustration— and every limit
presupposes something beyond it— hence the neutral illumina­
tion. And when you bear in mind that these were the raised eye­
brows and parted lips of a child, you may better appreciate what
depths of calculated carnality, what reflected despair, restrained
me from falling at her dear feet and dissolving in human tears,
and sacrificing my jealousy to whatever pleasure Lolita might

376

hope to derive from mixing with dirty and dangerous children in
an outside world that was real to her.
And I have still other smothered memories, now unfolding
themselves into limbless monsters of pain. Once, in a sunset­
ending street of Beardsley, she turned to little Eva Rosen (I was
taking both nymphets to a concert and walking behind them so
close as almost to touch them with my person), she turned to
Eva, and so very serenely and seriously, in answer to something
the other had said about its being better to die than hear Milton
Pinski, some local schoolboy she knew, talk about music, my
Lolita remarked:
‘You know, what’s so dreadful about dying is that you are
completely on your own5; and it struck me, as my automaton
knees went up and down, that I simply did not know a thing
about my darling’s mind and that quite possibly, behind the
awful juvenile cliches, there was in her a garden and a twilight,
and a palace gate— dim and adorable regions which happened to
be lucidly and absolutely forbidden to me, in my polluted rags
and miserable convulsions; for I often noticed that living as we
did, she and I, in a world of total evil, we would become strangely
embarrassed whenever I tried to discuss something she and an
older friend, she and a parent, she and a real healthy sweetheart,
I and Annabel, Lolita and a sublime, purified, analysed, deified
Harold Haze, might have discussed— an abstract idea, a painting,
stippled Hopkins or shorn Baudelaire, God or Shakespeare, any­
thing of a genuine kind. Goodwill! She would mail her vulner­
ability in trite brashness and boredom, whereas I, using for my
desperately detached comments an artificial tone of voice that set
my own last teeth on edge, provoked my audience to such out­
bursts of rudeness as made any further conversation impossible,
oh my poor, bruised child.
I loved you. I was a pentapod monster, but I loved you. I was
despicable and brutal, and turpid, and everything, maisje faimais,
je i'aimais! And there were times when I knew how you felt, and
it was hell to know it, my little one. Lolita girl, brave Dolly
Schiller.
I recall certain moments, let us call them icebergs in paradise,
when after having had my fill of her— after fabulous, insane
exertions that left me limp and azure-barred— I would gather her

in my arms with, at last, a mute moan of human tenderness (her
skin glistening in the neon light coming from the paved court
through the slits in the blind, her soot-black lashes matted, her
grave grey eyes more vacant than ever— for all the world a little
patient still in the confusion of a drug after a major operation)—
and the tenderness would deepen to shame and despair, and I
would lull and rock my lone light Lolita in my marble arms, and
moan in her warm hair, and caress her at random and mutely
ask her blessing, and at the peak of this human agonized selfless
tenderness (with my soul actually hanging around her naked body
and ready to repent), all at once, ironically, horribly, lust would
swell again— and ‘oh, no\ Lolita would say with a sigh to heaven,
and the next moment the tenderness and the azure— all would be
shattered.
Mid-twentieth century ideas concerning child-parent relation­
ship have been considerably tainted by the scholastic rigmarole
and standardized symbols of the psycho-analytic racket, but I
hope I am addressing myself to unbiased readers. Once when
Avis’s father had honked outside to signal papa had come to take
his pet home, I felt obliged to invite him into the parlour, and
he sat down for a minute, and while we conversed, Avis, a heavy,
unattractive, affectionate child, drew up to him and eventually
perched plumply on his knee. Now, I do not remember if I have
mentioned that Lolita always had an absolutely enchanting smile
for strangers, a tender furry slitting of the eyes, a dreamy sweet
radiance of all her features which did not mean a thing of course
but was so beautiful, so endearing that one found it hard to reduce
such sweetness to but a magic gene automatically lighting up her
face in atavistic token of some ancient rite of welcome— hospitable
prostitution, the coai'se reader may say. Well, there she stood
while Mr Byrd twirled his hat and talked, and— yes, look how
stupid of me, I have left out the main characteristic of the famous
Lolita smile, namely: while the tender, nectared, dimpled bright­
ness played, it was never directed at the stranger in the room but
hung in its own remote flowered void, so to speak, or wandered
■ with myopic softness over chance objects— and this is what was
happening now: while fat Avis sidled up to her papa, Lolita
gently beamed at a fruit knife that she fingered on the edge of
the table, whereon she leaned, many miles away from me.
278

Suddenly, as Avis dung to her father’s neck and ear while, with a
casual arm, the man enveloped his lumpy and large offspring,
I saw Lolita’s smile lose all its light and become a frozen little
shadow of itself, and the fruit knife slipped off the table and
struck her with its silver handle a freak blow on the ankle which
made her gasp, and crouch head forward, and then, jumping on
one leg, her face awful with the preparatory grimace which
children hold till the tears gush, she was gone— to be followed at
once and consoled in the kitchen by Avis who had such a wonder­
ful fat pink dad and a small chubby brother, and a brand-new
baby sister, and a home, and two grinning dogs, and Lolita had
nothing. And I have a neat pendant to that little scene— also in
a Beardsley setting. Lolita, who had been reading near the fire,
stretched herself, and then inquired, her elbow up, with a grunt:
‘Where is she buried anyway?’ ‘Who?’ ‘Oh, you know, my
murdered mummy.’ ‘And you know where her grave is,’ I said
controlling myself, whereupon I named the cemetery— -just out­
side Ramsdale, between the railway tracks and Lakeview Hill.
‘Moreover,’ I added, ‘the tragedy of such an accident is some­
what cheapened by the epithet you saw fit to apply to it. I f you
really wish to triumph in your mind over the idea of death------5
‘Ray’, said Lo for hurray, and languidly left the room, and for a
long while I stared with smarting eyes into the fire. Then I
picked up her book. It was some trash for young people. There
was a gloomy girl Marion, and there was her stepmother who
turned out to be, against all expectations, a young, gay, under­
standing redhead who explained to Marion that Marion’s dead
mother had really been a heroic woman since she had deliberately
dissimulated her great love for Marion because she was dying,
and did not want her child to miss her. I did not rush up to her
room with cries. I always preferred the mental hygiene of non­
interference. Now, squirming and pleading with my own memory,
I recall that on this and similar occasions, it was always my habit
and method to ignore Lolita’s states of mind while comforting
my own base self. When my mother, in a livid wet dress, under
the tumbling mist (so I vividly imagined her), had run panting
up that ridge above Moulinet to be felled there by a thunderbolt,
I was but an infant, and in retrospect no yearnings of the accepted
kind could I ever graft upon any moment of my youth, no matter
279

how savagely psychotherapists heckled me in my later periods of
depression. But I admit that a man of my power of imagination
cannot plead personal ignorance of universal emotions. I may
also have relied too much on the abnormally chill relations
between Charlotte and her daughter. But the awful point of the
whole argument is this. It had become gradually clear to my
conventional Lolita during our singular and bestial cohabitation
that even the most miserable of family lives was better than the
parody of incest, which, in the long run, was the best I could
offer the waif.

r a ms d a l e r e v i s i t e d . I approached it from the side of the lake.
T he sunny noon was all eyes. As I rode by in my mud-flecked
car, I, could distinguish scintillas of diamond water between the
far pines. I turned into the cemetery and walked among the long
and short stone monuments. Bonzhur, Charlotte. On some of the
graves there were pale, transparent little national flags slumped
in the windless air under the evergreens. Gee, Ed, that was bad
luck— referring to G. Edward Grammar, a thirty-five-year-old
. New York office manager who had just been arraigned on a
charge of murdering his thirty-three-year-old wife, Dorothy.
Bidding for the perfect crime, Ed had bludgeoned his wife and
put her into a car. The case came to light when two county
policemen on patrol saw Mrs Grammar’s new big blue Chrysler,
an anniversary present from her husband, speeding crazily down
. a hill, just inside their jurisdiction (God bless our good cops!).
The car sideswiped a pole, ran up an embankment covered with
beard grass, wild strawberry and cinquefoil, and overturned.
The wheels were still gently spinning in the mellow sunlight when
the officers removed Mrs G’s body. It appeared to be a routine
highway accident at first. Alas, the woman’s battered body did

not match up with only minor damage suffered by the car. I did
better.
I rolled on. It was funny to see again the slender white church
and the enormous elms. Forgetting that in an American suburban
street a lone pedestrian is more conspicuous than a lone motorist,
I left the car in the avenue to walk unobtrusively past 342 Lawn
Street. Before the great bloodshed, I was entitled to a little relief,
to a cathartic spasm of mental regurgitation. Closed were the
white shutters of the Junk mansion, and somebody had attached
a found black velvet hair ribbon to the white for sale sign which
was leaning toward the sidewalk. No dog barked. No gardener
telephoned. No Miss Opposite sat on the vined porch— where to
the lone pedestrian’s annoyance two pony-tailed young women
in identical polka-dotted pinafores stopped doing whatever they
were doing to stare at him: she was long dead, no doubt, these
might be her twin nieces from Philadelphia.
Should I enter my old house? As in a Turgenev story, a torrent
of Italian music came from an open window— that of the living
room: what romantic soul was playing the piano where no piano
had plunged and plashed on that bewitched Sunday with the
sun on her beloved legs? All at once I noticed that from the lawn
I had mown a golden-skinned, brown-haired nymphet of nine
or ten, in white shorts, was looking at me with wild fascination
in her large blue-black eyes. I said something pleasant to her,
meaning no harm, an old-world compliment, what nice eyes you
have, but she retreated in haste and the music stopped abruptly,
and a violent-looking dark man, glistening with sweat, came out
and glared at me. I was on the point of identifying myself when,
with a pang of dream-embarrassment, I became aware o f my
mud-caked dungarees, my filthy and torn sweater, my bristly
chin, my bum’s bloodshot eyes. Without saying a word, I turned
and plodded back the way I had come. An aster-like anaemic
flower grew out of a remembered chink in the sidewalk. Quietly
resurrected, Miss Opposite was being wheeled out by her nieces,
on to her porch, as if it were a stage and I the star performer.
Praying she would not call to me, I hurried to my car. What a
steep little street. What a profound avenue. A red ticket showed
between wiper and windshield; I carefully tore it into two, four,
eight pieces.
281

Feeling I was losing my time, I drove energetically to the
downtown hotel where I had arrived with a new bag more than
five years before. X took a room, made two appointments by
telephone, shaved, bathed, put on black clothes and went down
for a drink in the bar. Nothing had changed. The bar-room was
suffused with the same dim, impossible garnet-red light that in
Europe years ago went with low haunts, but here meant a bit of
atmosphere in a family hotel. I sat at the same little table where
at the very start of my stay, immediately after becoming Char­
lotte’s lodger, I had thought fit to celebrate the occasion by
suavely sharing with her half a bottle of champagne, which had
fatally conquered her poor brimming heart. As then, a moon­
faced waiter was arranging with stellar care fifty sherries on a
round tray for a wedding party. Murphy-Fantasia, this time. It
was eight minutes to three. As I walked through the lobby, I had
to skirt a group of ladies who with mille grdces were taking leave
of each other after a luncheon party. W ith a harsh cry of recogni­
tion, one pounced upon me. She was a stout, short woman in
pearl-grey, with a long, grey, slim plume to her small hat. It was
Mrs Chatfield. She attacked me with a fake smile, all aglow with
evil curiosity. (Had I done to Dolly, perhaps, what Frank Lasalle,
a fifty-year-old mechanic, had done to eleven-year-old Sally
Horner in 1948?) Very soon I had that avid glee well under
control. She thought I was in California. How was----- ? With
exquisite pleasure I informed her that my stepdaughter had just
married a brilliant young mining engineer with a hush-hush job
in the north-west. She said she disapproved of such early mar­
riages, she would never let her Phyllis, who was now eighteen----‘Oh yes, of course,’ I said quietly. T remember Phyllis. Phyllis
and Camp Q,. Yes, of course. By the way, did she ever tell you
how Charlie Holmes debauched there his mother’s little charges?’
Mrs Chatfield’s already broken smile now disintegrated com­
pletely.
‘For shame,’ she cried, ‘for shame, Mr Humbert! The poor boy
has just been killed in Korea.’
I said didn’t she think *vient de\ with the infinitive# expressed
recent events so much more neatly than the English ‘just’, with
the past? But I had to be trotting off, I said.
There were only two blocks to Windmuller’s office. He greeted

382

me with a very slow, very enveloping, strong, searching grip. He
thought I was in California. Had I not lived at one time at
Beardsley? His daughter had just entered Beardsley College.
And how was----- ? I gave all necessary information about Mrs
Schiller. We had a pleasant business conference. I walked out
into the hot September sunshine a contented pauper.
Now that everything had been put out of the way, I could
dedicate myself freely to the main object of my visit to Ramsdale.
In the methodical manner on which I have always prided myself,
I had been keeping Clare Q uilty’s face masked in my dark
dungeon, where he was waiting for me to come with barber and
priest: ‘Reveillez-vous, Laqueue, il est temps de mourirP I have no time
right now to discuss the mnemonics of physiognomization— I am
on my way to his uncle and walking fast— but let me jot down
this: I had preserved in the alcohol of a clouded memory the toad
of a face. In the course of a few glimpses, I had noticed its slight
resemblance to a cheery and rather repulsive wine dealer, a
relative of mine in Switzerland. W ith his dumbbells and stinking
tricot, and fat hairy arms, and bald patch, and pig-faced servantconcubine, he was on the whole a harmless old rascal. Too harm­
less, in fact, to be confused with my prey. In the state o f mind I
now foupd myself, I had lost contact with Trapp’s image. It had
become completely engulfed by the face of Clare Quilty— as
represented, with artistic precision, by an easeled photograph
of him that stood on his uncle’s desk.
In Beardsley, at the hands of charming D r Molnar, I had
undergone a rather serious dental operation, retaining only a few
upper and lower front teeth. The substitutes were dependent on a
system of plates with an inconspicuous wire affair running along
my upper gums. The whole arrangement was a masterpiece of
comfort, and my canines were in perfect health. However, to
garnish my secret purpose with a plausible pretext, I told Dr
Quilty that, in hope of alleviating facial neuralgia, I had decided
to have all my teeth removed. W hat would a complete set of
dentures cost? How long would the process take, assuming we
fixed our first appointment for some time in November? Where
was his famous nephew now? Would it be possible to have them
all out in one dramatic session?
A white-smocked, grey-haired man, with a crew cut and the
283

big flat cheeks of a politician, Dr Quilty perched on the corner of
his desk, one foot dreamily and seductively rocking as he launched
on a glorious long-range plan. He would first provide me with
provisional plates until the gums settled. Then he would make me
a permanent set. He would like to have a look at that mouth of
mine. He wore perforated pied shoes. He had not visited with the
rascal since 1946, but supposed he could be found at his ancestral
home, Grimm Road, not far from Parkington. It was a noble
dream. His foot rocked, his gaze was inspired. It would cost me
around six hundred. He suggested he take measurements right
away, and make the first set before starting operations. M y mouth
was to him a splendid cave full of priceless treasures, but I denied
him entrance.
‘No,5 I said. ‘On second thoughts, I shall have it all done by
D r Molnar. His price is higher, but he is of course a much better
dentist than you.5
I do not know if any of my readers will ever have a chance to
say that. It is a delicious dream feeling. Glare’s uncle remained
sitting on the desk, still looking dreamy, but his foot had stopped
push-rocking the cradle of rosy anticipation. O n the other hand,
his nurse, a skeleton-thin, faded girl, with the tragic eyes of un­
successful blondes, rushed after me so as to be able to slam the
door in my wake.
Push the magazine into the butt. Press home until you hear or
feel the magazine catch engage. Delightfully snug. Capacity:
eight cartridges. Full Blued. Aching to be discharged.

a gas s tati on a t t e n d a n t in Parkington explained to me very

clearly how to get to Grimm Road. Wishing to be sure Quilty
would be at home, I attempted to ring him up but learned that
284

his private telephone had recently been disconnected. Did that
mean he was gone? I started to drive to Grimm Road, twelve
miles north of the town. By that time night had eliminated most
of the landscape and as I followed the narrow winding highway,
a series of short posts, ghostly white, with reflectors, borrowed my
own lights to indicate this or that curve. I could make out a dark
valley on one side of the road and wooded slopes on the other,
and in front of me, like derelict snowflakes, moths drifted out of
the blackness into my probing aura. A t the twelfth mile, as fore­
told, a curiously hooded bridge sheathed me for a moment and,
beyond it, a white-washed rock loomed on the right, and a few
car lengths further, on the same side, I turned off the highway up
gravelly Grimm Road. For a couple of minutes all was dank,
dark, dense forest. Then, Favor Manor, a wooden house with a
turret, arose in. a circular clearing. Its windows glowed yellow and
red; its drive was cluttered with half a dozen cars. I stopped in
the shelter of the trees and abolished my lights to ponder the next
move quietly. He would be surrounded by his henchmen and
whores. I could not help seeing the inside of that festive and ram­
shackle castle in terms of ‘Troubled Teens’, a story in one of her
magazines, vague ‘orgies’, a sinister adult with penele cigar,
drugs, bodyguards. A t least, he was there. I would return in the
torpid morning.
Gently I rolled back to town, in that old faithful car of mine
which was serenely, almost cheerfully working for me. M y Lolita!
There was still a three-year-old bobby pin of hers in the depths
of the glove compartment. There was still that stream of pale
moths siphoned out of the night by my headlights. Dark barns
still propped themselves up here and there by the roadside.
People were still going to the movies. While searching for night
lodgings, I passed a drive-in. In a selenian glow, truly mystical
in its contrast with the moonless and massive night, on a gigantic
screen slanting away among dark drowsy fields, a thin phantom
raised a gun, both he and his arm reduced to tremulous dish­
water by the oblique angle of that receding world— and the next
moment a row of trees shut off the gesticulation.

i l e f t i nsomni a l o d g e next morning around eight and spent
some time in Parkington. Visions of bungling the execution kept
obsessing me. Thinking that perhaps the cartridges in the auto­
matic had gone stale during a week of inactivity, I removed them
and inserted a fresh batch. Such a thorough oil bath did I give
Chum that now I could not get rid of the stuff. I bandaged Kim
up with a rag, like a maimed limb, and used another rag to
wrap up a handful of spare bullets.
A thunderstorm accompanied me most of the way back to
Grimm Road, but when I reached Pavor Manor, the sun was
visible again, burning like a man, and the birds screamed in the
drenched and steaming trees. The elaborate and decrepit house
seemed to stand in a kind of daze, reflecting as it were my own
state, for I could not help realizing, as my feet touched the
springy and insecure ground, that I had overdone the alcoholic
stimulation business.
A guardedly ironic silence answered my bell. The garage, how­
ever, was loaded with his car, a black convertible for the nonce.
I tried the knocker. Re-nobody. With a petulant snarl, I pushed
the front door— and, how nice, it swung open as in a medieval
fairy tale. Having softly closed it behind me, I made my way
across a spacious and very ugly hall; peered into an adjacent
drawing room; noticed a number of used glasses growing out of
the carpet; decided that master was still asleep in the master
bedroom.
So I trudged upstairs. M y right hand clutched muffled Chum
in my pocket, my left patted the sticky banisters. O f the three
bedrooms I inspected, one had obviously been slept in that night.
There was a library full of flowers. There was a rather bare room
with ample and deep mirrors and a polar bear skin on the
slippery floor. There were still other rooms. A happy thought
struck me. If and when master returned from his constitutional

in the woods, or emerged from some secret lair, it m ight be wise
for an unsteady gunman with a long job before lum to prevent his
playmate from locking himself up in a room. Consequently, for at
least five minutes I went about— lucidly insane, crazily calm, an
enchanted and very tight hunter— turning whatever keys in
whatever locks there were and pocketing them with m y free left
hand. The house, being an old one, had more planned privacy
than have modern glamour-boxes, where the bathroom, the only
lockable locus, has to be used for the furtive needs o f planned
parenthood.
Speaking of bathrooms— I was about to visit a third one when
master came out of it, leaving a brief waterfall behind him. T h e
corner of a passage did not quite conceal me. Grey-faced, baggyeyed, Huffily dishevelled in a scanty balding way, but still per­
fectly recognizable, he swept by me in a purple bathrobe, very
like one I had. He either did not notice me, or else dismissed me
as some familiar and innocuous hallucination— and, showing m e
his hairy calves, he proceeded, sleepwalker-wise, downstairs. I
pocketed my last key and followed him into the entrance hall.
He had half opened his mouth and the front door, to peer out
through a sunny chink as one who thinks he has heard a half­
hearted visitor ring and recede. Then, still ignoring the raincoated phantasm that had stopped in midstairs, master walked
into a cosy boudoir across the hall from the draw ing room,
through which— taking it easy, knowing he was safe— I now w ent
away from him, and in a bar-adorned kitchen gingerly unw rapped
dirty Chum, taking care not to leave any oil stains on the chrom e
— I think I got the wrong product, it was black and aw fully
messy. In my usual meticulous way, I transferred naked Chum
to a clean recess about me and made for the little boudoir. M y
step, as I say, was springy— too springy perhaps for success. B ut
my heart pounded with tiger joy, and I crunched, a cocktail glass
underfoot.
Master met me in the Oriental parlour.
‘Now who are you?5he asked in a high hoarse voice, his hands
thrust into his dressing-gown pockets, Jiis eyes fixing a point to
the north-east of my head. ‘Are you by any chance Brewster?*
By now it was evident to everybody that he was in a fog and
completely at my so-called mercy. I could enjoy myself.
287

‘That’s right/ I answered suavely. lJe suis Monsieur Brustere,
Let us chat for a moment before we start.’
He looked pleased. His smudgy moustache twitched. I removed
my raincoat. I was wearing a black suit, a black shirt, no tie. We
sat down in two easy chairs.
‘You know/ he said, scratching loudly his fleshy and gritty
grey cheek and showing his small pearly teeth in a crooked grin,
‘you don’t look like Jack Brewster. I mean, the resemblance is not
particularly striking. Somebody told me he had a brother with
the same telephone company.’
To have him trapped, after those years of repentance and
rage. . . . To look at the black hairs on the back of his pudgy
hands. . . . To wander with a hundred eyes over his purple silks
and hirsute chest foreglimpsing the punctures, and mess, and music
of pain. . . . T o know that this semi-animated, subhuman trickster
who had sodomized my darling— oh, my darling, this was in­
tolerable bliss!
‘No, I am afraid I am neither of the Brewsters.’
He cocked his head, looking more pleased than ever.
‘Guess again, Punch.’
‘Ah/ said Punch, ‘so you have not come to bother me about
those long-distance calls?’
‘You do make them once in a while, don’t you?’
‘Excuse me?’
I said I had said I thought he had said he had never----‘People/ he said, ‘people in general, I ’m not accusing you,
Brewster, but you know it’s absurd the way people invade this
damned house without even knocking. They use the vaterre, they
use the kitchen, they use the telephone. Phil calls Philadelphia.
Pat calls Patagonia. I refuse to pay. You have a funny accent,
Captain.’
‘Quilty/ I said, ‘do you recall a little girl called Dolores Haze,
Dolly Haze? Dolly called Dolores, Colo?’
‘Sure, she may have made those calls, sure. Any place. Paradise,
Wash., Hell Canyon. Who cares?’
‘I do, Quilty. You see, I am her father.’
‘Nonsense/ he said. ‘You are not. You are some foreign literary
agent. A Frenchman once translated my Proud Flesh as La Fierle
de la Chair. Absurd,’

‘She was my child, Quiity.5
In the state he was in he could not really be taken aback by
anything, but his blustering manner was not quite convincing.
A sort of wary inkling kindled his eyes into a semblance of life.
They were immediately dulled again.
‘I ’m very fond of children myself,5 he said, ‘and fathers are
among my best friends.5
He turned his head away, looking for something. He beat his
pockets. He attempted to rise from his seat.
‘Down!5 I said— apparently much louder than I intended.
‘You need not roar at me,5 he complained in his strange
feminine manner. ‘I just wanted a smoke. I ’m dying for a smoke.5
‘You’re dying anyway.5
‘Oh, chucks,5 he said. ‘You begin to bore me. W hat do you
want? Are you French, mister? Woolly-woo-boo-are? Let’s go to
the barroomette and have a stiff----- 5
Fie saw the little dark weapon lying in my palm as if I were
offering it to him.
‘Say!5he drawled (now imitating the underworld numbskull of
movies), ‘that’s a swell little gun you’ve got there. W hat d’you
want for her?5
I slapped down his outstretched hand and he managed to
knock over a box on a low table near him. It ejected a handful
of cigarettes.
‘Here they are,5 he said cheerfully. ‘You recall Kipling: une
femme est une femme, mats un Caporal est une cigarette? Now we need
matches.5
‘Quiity,5 I said. ‘I want you to concentrate. You are going to
die in a moment. The hereafter for all we know may be an eternal
state of excruciating insanity. You smoked your last cigarette
yesterday. Concentrate. T ry to understand what is happening
to you.5
He kept taking the Drome cigarette apart and munching bits
of it.
‘I am willing to try,5 he said. ‘You are either Australian, or a
German refugee. Must you talk to me? This is a Gentile’s house,
you know. Maybe, you’d better run along. And do stop demon­
strating that gun. I’ve an old Stern-Luger in the music room.5
I pointed Chum at his slippered foot and crushed the trigger.
K

289

It clicked. He looked at his foot, at the pistol, again at his foot.
I made another awful effort, and, with a ridiculously feeble and
juvenile sound, it went off. The bullet entered the thick pink rug,
and I had the paralysing impression that it had merely trickled
in and might come out again.
‘See what I mean?5 said Quilty. ‘You should be a little more
careful. Give me that thing for Christ’s sake.5
He reached for it. I pushed him back into the chair. The rich
joy was waning. It was high time I destroyed him, but he must
understand why he was being destroyed. His condition infected
me, the weapon felt limp and clumsy in my hand.
‘Concentrate,5 1 said, ‘on the thought of Dolly Haze whom you
kidnapped------5
‘I did not!5he cried. ‘You’re all wet. I saved her from a beastly
pervert. Show me your badge instead of shooting at my foot, you
ape, you. Where is that badge? I ’m not responsible for the rapes
of others. Absurd! That joy ride, I grant you, was a silly stunt
but you got her back, didn’t you? Come, let’s have a drink.5
I asked him whether he wanted to be executed sitting or
standing.
‘Ah, let me think,’ he said. ‘It is not an easy question. In­
cidentally— I made a mistake. Which I sincerely regret. You see,
I had no fun with your Dolly. I am practically impotent, to tell
the melancholy truth. And I gave her a splendid vacation. She
met some remarkable people. Do you happen to know----- 5
And with a tremendous lurch he fell all over me, sending the
pistol hurtling under a chest of drawers. Fortunately he was more
impetuous than vigorous, and I had little difficulty in shoving
him back into his chair.
He puffed a little and folded his arms on his chest.
‘Now you’ve done it,5 he said. l Vous voild dans de beaux draps}
mon viewed
His French was improving.
I looked around. Perhaps, if— perhaps I could— on my hands
and knees? Risk it?
*Alors, quefait-on?' he asked watching me closely.
I stooped. He dijl not move. I stooped lower.
‘My dear sir,’ he said, ‘stop trifling with life and death. I am a
playwright. I have written tragedies, comedies, fantasies. I have

made private movies out of Justine and other eighteenth-century
sexcapades. I ’m the author of fifty-two successful scenarios. I
know all the ropes. Let me handle this. There should be a poker
somewhere, why don’t I fetch it, and then w e’ll fish out your
property.’
Fussily, busybodily, cunningly, he had risen again while ne
talked. I groped under the chest trying at the same time to keep
an eye on him. All of a sudden I noticed that he had noticed that
I did not seem to have noticed Chum protruding from beneath
the other corner of the chest. We fell to wrestling again. We
rolled all over the floor, in each other’s arms, like two huge help­
less children. He was naked and goatish under his robe, and 1 fe^
suffocated as he rolled over me. I rolled over him. We rolled
over me. They rolled over him. We rolled over us.
In its published form, this book is being read, I assume, in the
first years of 2000 a .d . (1935 plus eighty or ninety, live long? my
love); and elderly readers will surely recall at this point the
obligatory scene in the Westerns of their childhood. Our tussle,
however, lacked the ox-stunning fisticuffs, the flying furniture.
He and I were two large dummies, stuffed with dirty cotton and
rags. It was a silent, soft, formless tussle on the part of two literati,
one of whom was utterly disorganized by a drug while the other
was handicapped by a heart condition and too much gin. When
at last I had possessed myself of my precious weapon, and the
scenario writer had been reinstalled in his low chair, both o f 118
were panting as the cowman and the sheepman never do after
their battle.
I decided to inspect the pistol— our sweat might have spoiled
something— and regain my wind before proceeding to the mam
item in the programme. To fill in the pause, I proposed he read
his own sentence— in the poetical form I had given it. The term
‘poetical justice’ is one that may be most happily used in ^
respect. I handed him a neat typescript.
s
‘Yes,’ he said, ‘splendid idea. Let me fetch m y reading glasses
(he attempted to rise).

‘No.’
‘Just as you say. Shall I read out loud?’

‘Yes.’

Because you took advantage of a sinner
because you took advantage
because you took
because you took advantage of my disadvantage .
‘That’s good, you know. That’s damned good.’
. . . when I stood Adam-naked
before a federal law and all its stinging stars
‘Oh, grand stuff!’
. . . Because you took advantage of a sin
when I was helpless moulting moist and tender
hoping for the best
dreaming of marriage in a mountain state
aye of a litter of Lolitas . . .
‘Didn’t get that.’
Because you took advantage of my inner
essential innocence
because you cheated me—
*A little repetitious, what? Where was I?’
Because you cheated me of my redemption
because you took
her at the age when lads
play with erector sets
‘Getting smutty, eh?’
a little downy girl still wearing poppies
still eating popcorn in the coloured gloam
where tawny Indians took paid croppers
because you stole her
from her wax-browed and dignified protector
spitting into his heavy-lidded eye
ripping his flavid toga and at dawn
leaving the hog to roll upon his new discomfort
the awfulness of love and violets
remorse despair while you
took a dull doll to pieces
and threw its head away
because of ah, you did
because of ail I did not
you have to die

‘Well, sir, this is certainly a fine poem. Your best as far as I am
concerned.’
He folded and handed it back to me.
I asked him if he had anything serious to say before dying.
The automatic was again ready for use on the person. He looked
at it and heaved a big sigh.
‘Now look here, M ac/ he said. ‘You are drunk and I am a
sick man. Let us postpone the matter. I need quiet. I have to
nurse my impotence. Friends are coming in the afternoon to take
me to a game. This pistol-packing farce is becoming a frightful
nuisance. We are men of the world, in everything— sex, free verse,
marksmanship. If you bear me a grudge, I am ready to make
unusual amends. Even an old-fashioned rencontre, sword or pistol,
in Rio or elsewhere— is not excluded. M y memory and my
eloquence are not at their best today but really, my dear M r
Humbert, you were not an ideal stepfather, and I did not force
your little protegee to join me. It was she made me remove her
to a happier home. This house is not as modern as that ranch
we shared with dear friends. But it is roomy, cool in summer and
winter, and in a word comfortable, so, since I intend retiring to
England or Florence for ever, I suggest you move in. It is yours,
gratis. Under the condition you stop pointing at me that [he
swore disgustingly] gun. By the way, I do not know if you care
for the bizarre, but if you do, I can offer you, also gratis, as house
pet, a rather exciting little freak, a young lady with three breasts,
one a dandy, this is a rare and delightful marvel of nature. Now,
soyotis raisonnables. You will only wound me hideously and then
rot in jail while I recuperate in a tropical setting. I promise you,
Brewster, you will be happy here, with a magnificent cellar, and
all the royalties from my next play— I have not much at the bank
right now but I propose to borrow— you know, as the Bard said,
with that cold in his head, to borrow and to borrow and to borrow.
There are other advantages. We have here a most reliable and
bribable charwoman, a Mrs Vibrissa— curious name— who comes
from the village twice a week, alas not today, she has daughters,
granddaughters, a thing or two I know about the chief of police
makes him my slave. I am a playwright. I have been called the
American Maeterlinck, Maeterlinck-Schmetterling, says I. Gome
on! All this is very humiliating, and I am not sure I am doing the
293

right thing. Never use herculanita with rum. Now drop that
pistol like a good fellow. I knew your dear wife slightly. You
may use my wardrobe. Oh, another thing— you are going to like
this. I have an absolutely unique collection of erotica upstairs.
Just to mention one item: the in folio de-luxe Bagration Island by
the explorer and psycho-analyst Melanie Weiss, a remarkable
lady, a remarkable work-—drop that gun— with photographs of
eight hundred and something male organs she examined and
measured in 1932 on Bagration, in the Barda Sea, very illuminat­
ing graphs, plotted with love under pleasant skies— drop that gun
— and moreover I can arrange for you to attend executions, not
everybody knows that the chair is painted yellow——
Feu. This time I hit something hard. I hit the back of a black
rocking chair, not unlike Dolly Schiller’s— my bullet hit the inside
surface of its back whereupon it immediately went into a rocking
act, so fast and with such zest that anyone coming into the room
might have been flabbergasted by the double miracle: that chair
rocking in a panic all by itself, and the armchair, where my
purple target had just been, now void of all live content. Wiggling
his fingers in the air, with a rapid heave of his rump, he flashed
into the music room and the next second we were tugging and
gasping on both sides of the door which had a key I had over­
looked. I won again, and with another abrupt movement Glare
the Impredictable sat down before the piano and played several
atrociously vigorous, fundamentally hysterical, plangent chords,
his jowls quivering, his spread hands tensely plunging, and his
nostrils emitting the soundtrack snorts which had been absent
from our fight. Still singing those impossible sonorities, he made a
futile attempt to open with his foot a kind of seaman’s chest near
the piano. M y next bullet caught him somewhere in the side, and
he rose from his chair higher and higher, like old, grey, mad
Nijinski, like Old Faithful, like some old nightmare of mine, to a
phenomenal altitude, or so it seemed, as he rent the air— still
shaking with the rich black music— head thrown back in a howl,
fi.and pressed to his brow, and with his other hand clutching his
armpit as if stung by a hornet, down he came on his heels and,
again a normal robed man, scurried out into the hall.
I see myself following him through the hall, with a kind of
double, triple, kangaroo jump, remaining quite straight on straight

legs while bouncing up twice in his wake, and then, bouncing
between him and the front door in a ballet-like stiff bounce, with
the purpose of heading him off, since the door was not properly
closed.
Suddenly dignified, and somewhat morose, he started to w^alk
up the broad stairs, and, shifting my position, but not actually
following him up the steps, I fired three or four times in quick
succession, wounding him at every blaze; and every time I did
it to him, that horrible thing to him, his face would twitch in an
absurd clownish manner, as if he were exaggerating the pain; he
slowed down, rolled his eyes half closing them and made a
feminine ‘ah!’ and he shivered every time a. bullet hit him as if
I were tickling him, and every time I got him with those slow,
clumsy, blind bullets of mine, he would say under his breath,
with a phoney British accent— all the while dreadfully twitching,
shivering, smirking, but withal talking in a curiously detached
and even amiable manner: ‘Ah, that hurts, sir, enough! Ah, that
hurts atrociously, my dear fellow, I pray you, desist. Ah— very
painful, very painful, indeed. . . . God! Hah! This is abominable,
you should really not—— 9 His voice trailed off as he reached the
landing, but he steadily walked on despite all the lead I had
lodged in his bloated body— and in distress, in dismay, I under­
stood that far from killing him I was injecting spurts of energy
into the poor fellow, as if the bullets had been capsules wherein
a heady elixir danced.
I reloaded the thing with hands that were black and bloody—
I had touched something he had anointed with his thick gore.
Then I rejoined him upstairs, the keys jangling in my pockets
like gold.
He was trudging from room to room, bleeding majestically,
trying to find an open window, shaking his head, and still trying
to talk me out of murder. I took aim at his head, arid he retired
to the master bedroom with a burst of royal purple where his ear
had been.
‘Get out, get out of here,’ he said coughing and spitting; and in
a nightmare of wonder, I saw this blood-spattered but still
buoyant person get into his bed and. wrap himself up in the chaotic
bedclothes. I hit him at very close range through the blankets,
and then he lay back, and a big pink bubble with juvenile con­

295

notations formed on his lips, grew to the size of a toy balloon,
and vanished.
I may have lost contact with reality for a second or two— oh,
nothing of the I-just-blacked-ont sort that your common criminal
enacts; on the contrary, I want to stress the fact that I was re­
sponsible for every shed drop of his bubbleblood; but a kind of
momentary shift occurred as if I were in the connubial bedroom,
and Charlotte were sick in bed. Quilty was a very sick man. I held
one of his slippers ins tead of the pistol— I was sitting on the pistol.
Then I made myself a little more comfortable in the chair near
the bed, and consulted my wrist watch. The crystal was gone but
it ticked. The whole sad business had taken more than an hour.
He was quiet at last. Far from feeling any relief, a burden even
weightier than the one I had hoped to get rid of was with me,
upon me, over me. I could not bring myself to touch him in order
to make sure he was really dead. He looked it: a quarter of his
face gone, and two flies beside themselves with a dawning sense
of unbelievable luck. My hands were hardly in better condition
than his. I washed up as best I could in the adjacent bathroom.
Now I could leave. As I emerged on the landing, I was amazed
to discover that a vivacious buzz I had just been dismissing as a
mere singing in my ears was really a medley of voices and radio
music coming from the downstairs drawing room.
I found there a number of people who apparently had just
arrived and were cheerfully drinking Quilty’s liquor. There was
a fat man in an easy chair; and two dark-haired pale young
beauties, sisters no doubt, big one and small one (almost a child),
demurely sat side by side on a davenport. A florid-faced fellow
with sapphire-blue eyes was in the act of bringing two glasses
out of the bar-like kitchen, where two or three women were
chatting and chinking ice. I stopped in the doorway and said:
‘I have just killed Glare Quilty.5 ‘Good for you,5 said the florid
fellow as he offered one of the drinks to the elder girl. ‘Somebody
ought to have done it long ago,5 remarked the fat man. ‘What
does he say, Tony?5 asked a faded blonde from the bar. ‘He says,5
answered the florid fellow, ‘he has killed Cue.5‘W ell,5said another
unidentified man rising in a corner where he had been crouching
to inspect some records, T guess we all should do it to him some
day.5 ‘Anyway,5 said Tony, ‘he’d better come down. We can’t
296

wait for him much longer if we want to go to that game.’ ‘Give
this man a drink somebody,5 said the fat person. ‘W ant a beer?5
said a woman in slacks, showing it to me from afar.
Only the two girls on the davenport, both wearing black, the
younger fingering a bright something about her white neck, only
they said nothing, but just smiled on, so young, so lewd. As the
music paused for a moment, there was a sudden noise on the
stairs. Tony and I stepped out into the hall. Quilty o f all people
had managed to crawl out on to the landing, and there we could
see him, flapping and heavy, and then subsiding, for ever this
time, in a purple heap.
‘Hurry up, Cue,5 said Tony with a laugh. ‘I believe, he’s
still----- 5 He returned to the drawing room, music drowned the
rest of the sentence.
This, I said to myself, was the end of the ingenious play staged
for me by Quilty. With a heavy heart I left the house and walked
through the spotted blaze of the sun to my car. Tw o other cars
were parked on both sides of it, and I had some trouble squeezing
out.'

THE REST IS a l i t t l e flattish and faded. Slowly I drove down­
hill, and presently found myself going at the same lazy pace in a
direction opposite to Parkington. I had left my raincoat in the
boudoir and Chum in the bathroom. No, it was not a house I
would have liked to live in. I wondered idly if some surgeon of
genius might not alter his own career, and perhaps the whole
destiny of mankind, by reviving quilted Quilty, Clare Obscure.
Not that I cared; on the whole I wished to forget the whole mess—
and when I did learn he was dead, the only satisfaction it gave
me was the relief of knowing I need not mentally accompany for
months a painful and disgusting convalescence interrupted by all
kinds of unmentionable operations and relapses, and perhaps an

actual visit from him, with trouble on my part to rationalize him
as not being a ghost. Thomas had something. It is strange that
the tactile sense, which is so infinitely less precious to men than
sight, becomes at critical moments our main, if not only, handle
to reality. I was all covered with Quilty— with the feel of that
tumble before the bleeding.
The road now stretched across open country, and it occurred
to me— not by way of protest, not as a symbol, or anything like
that, but merely as a novel experience— that since I had dis­
regarded all laws of humanity, I might as well disregard the rules
of traffic. So I crossed to the left side of the highway and checked
the feeling, and the feeling was good. It was a pleasant diaphragmal melting, with elements of diffused tactility, all this enhanced
by the thought that nothing could be nearer to the elimination of
basic physical laws than deliberately driving on the wrong side
of the road. In a way, it was a very spiritual itch. Gently, dreamily,
not exceeding twenty miles an hour, I drove on that queer mirror
side. Traffic was light. Cars that now and then passed me on the
side I had abandoned to them, honked at me brutally. Cars
coming towards me wobbled, swerved, and cried out in fear.
Presently I found myself approaching populated places. Passing
through a red light was like a sip of forbidden Burgundy when I
was a child. Meanwhile complications were arising. I was being
followed and escorted. Then in front of me I saw two cars placing
themselves in such a manner as to completely block my way.
With a graceful movement I turned off the road, and after two or
three big bounces, rode up a grassy slope, among surprised cows,
and there I came to a gentle rocking stop. A kind of thoughtful
Hegelian synthesis linking up two dead women.
I was soon to be taken out of the car (Hi, Melmoth, thanks a
lot, old fellow)— and was, indeed, looking forward to surrender
myself to many hands, without doing anything to co-operate,
while they moved and carried me, relaxed, comfortable, sur­
rendering myself lazily, like a patient, and deriving an eerie en­
joyment from my limpness and the absolutely reliable support
given me by the police and the ambulance people. And while I
was waiting for them to run up to me on the high slope, I evoked
a last mirage of wonder and hopelessness. One day, soon after her
disappearance, an attack of abominable nausea forced me to pull

298

up on the ghost of an old mountain road that now accompanied,
now traversed a brand new highway, with its population of asters
bathing in the detached warmth of a pale-blue afternoon in late
summer. After coughing myself inside out, I rested a while on a
boulder, and then, thinking the sweet air might do me good,
walked a little way toward a low stone parapet on the precipice
side of the highway. Small grasshoppers spurted out of the
withered roadside weeds. A very light cloud was opening its arms
and moving toward a slightly more substantial one belonging to
another, more sluggish, heavenlogged system. As I approached
the friendly abyss, I grew aware of a melodious unity o f sounds
rising like vapour from a small mining town that lay at my feet,
in a fold of the valley. One could make out the geometry of the
streets between blocks of red and grey roofs, and green puffs of
trees, and a serpentine stream, and the rich, ore-like glitter of the
city dump, and beyond the town, roads criss-crossing the crazy
quilt of dark and pale fields, and behind it all, great timbered
mountains. But even brighter than those quietly rejoicing colours
— for there are colours and shades that seem to enjoy themselves
in good company— both brighter and dreamier to the ear than
they were to the eye, was that vapoury vibration of accumulated
sounds that never ceased for a moment, as it rose to the lip of
granite where I stood wiping my foul mouth. And soon I realized
that all these sounds were of one nature, that no other sounds
but these came from the streets o f the transparent town, with the
women at home and the men away. Reader! W hat I heard was
but the melody of children at play, nothing but that, and so
limpid was the air that within this vapour of blended voices,
majestic and minute, remote and magically near, frank and
divinely enigmatic— one could hear now and then, as if released,
an almost articulate spurt of vivid laughter, or the crack o f a bat,
or the clatter of a toy wagon, but it was all really too far for the
eye to distinguish any movement in the lightly etched streets. I
stood listening to that musical vibration from my lofty slope, to
those flashes of separate cries with a kind o f demure murmur for
background, and then I knew that the hopelessly poignant thing
was not Lolita’s absence from m y side, but the absence of her
voice from that concord.
This then is my story. I have re-read it. It has bits of marrow

sticking to it, and blood, and beautiful bright-green flies. A t this
or that twist of it I feel my slippery self eluding me, gliding into
deeper and darker waters than I care to probe. I have camou­
flaged what I could so as not to hurt people. And I have toyed
with many pseudonyms for myself before I hit on a particularly
apt one. There are in my notes ‘Otto O tto’ and ‘Mesmer Mesmer’
and ‘Lambert Lambert’, but for some reason I think my choice
expresses the nastiness best.
When I started, fifty-six days ago, to write Lolita, first in the
psychopathic ward for observation, and then in this well-heated,
albeit tombal, seclusion, I thought I would use these notes in toto
at my trial, to save not my head, of course, but my soul. In mid­
composition, however, I realized that I could not parade living
Lolita. I still may use parts of this memoir in hermetic sessions,
but publication is to be deferred.
For reasons that may appear more obvious than they really
are, I am opposed to capital punishment; this attitude will be, I
trust, shared by the sentencing judge. Had I come before myself,
I would have given Humbert at least thirty-five years for rape,
and dismissed the rest of the charges. But even so, Dolly Schiller
will probably survive me by many years. The following decision I
make with all the legal impact and support of a signed testament:
I wish this memoir to be published only when Lolita is no longer
alive.
Thus, neither of us is alive when the reader opens this book.
But while the blood still throbs through my writing hand, you are
still as much part of blessed matter as I am, and I can still talk
to yoxi from here to Alaska. Be true to your Dick. Do not let
other fellows touch you. Do not talk to strangers. I hope you will
love your baby. I hope it will be a boy. That husband of yours,
I hope, will always treat you well, because otherwise my spectre
shall come at him, like black smoke, like a demented giant, and
pull him apart nerve by nerve. And do not pity C. Q,. One had
to choose between him and H. H., and one wanted H. H. to exist
at least a couple of months longer, so as to have him make you
live in tbc minds of later generations. I am thinking of aurochs
and angels, the secret of durable pigments, prophetic sonnets, the
refuge of art. And this is the only immortality you and I may
share, my Lolita.

VLADIMIR N ABOKOV

ON A BO O K E N T IT LE D LOLITA
a f t e r doi ng my impersonation of suave John Ray, the charac­

ter in Lolita who pens the Foreword, any comments coming
straight from me may strike one— may strike me, in fact— as an
impersonation of Vladimir Nabokov talking about his own book.
A few points, however, have to be discussed; and the auto­
biographic device may induce mimic and model to blend.
Teachers of Literature are apt to think up such problems as
‘What is the author’s purpose?’ or still worse ‘What is the guy
trying to say?’ Now, I happen to be the kind of author who in
starting to work on a book has no other purpose than to get rid
of that book and who, when asked to explain its origin and growth,
has to rely on such ancient terms as Interreaction of Inspiration
and Combination— which, I admit, sounds like a conjurer ex­
plaining one trick by performing another.
The first little throb of Lolita went through me late in 1939 or
early in 1940, in Paris, at a time when I was laid up with a severe
attack of intercostal neuralgia. As far as I can recall, the initial
shiver of inspiration was somehow prompted by a newspaper story
about an ape in the Jardin des Plantes who, after months of
coaxing by a scientist, produced the first drawing ever charcoaled
by an animal; this sketch showed the bars of the poor creature’s
cage. The impulse I record had no textual connection with the
ensuing train of thought, which resulted, however, in a prototype
of my present novel, a short story some thirty pages long. I wrote
it in Russian, the language in which I had been writing novels
since 1924 (the best of these are not translated into English, and
all are prohibited for political reasons in Russia). The man was a
Central European, the anonymous nymphet was French, and the
loci were Paris and Provence. I had him marry the little girl’s sick
mother who soon died, and after a thwarted attempt to take
advantage of the orphan in a hotel room, Arthur (for that was
301

his name) threw himself under the wheels of a truck. I read the
story one blue-papered wartime night to a group of friends—
Mark Aldanov, two social revolutionaries, and a woman doctor;
but I was not pleased with the thing and destroyed it some time
after moving to America in 1940.
Around 1949, in Ithaca, upstate New York, the throbbing,
which had never quite ceased, began to plague me again. Com­
bination joined inspiration with fresh zest and involved me in a
new treatment of the theme, this time in English— the language,
of my first governess in St Petersburg, circa 1903, a Miss Rachel
Home. The nymphet, now with a dash of Irish blood, was really
much the same lass, and the basic marrying-her-mother idea also
subsisted; but otherwise the thing was new and had grown in
secret the claws and wings of a novel.
The book developed slowly, with many interruptions and asides.
It had taken me some forty years to invent Russia and Western
Europe, and now I was faced by the task of inventing America.
The obtaining of such local ingredients as would allow me to
inject a modicum of average ‘reality’ (one of the few words which
mean nothing without quotes) into the brew of individual fancy,
proved at fifty a much more difficult process than it had been in
the Europe of my youth when receptiveness and retention were at
their automatic best. Other books intervened. Once or twice I
was on the point o f burning the unfinished draft and had carried
my Juanita Dark as far as the shadow of the leaning incinerator
on the innocent lawn, when I was stopped by the thought that
the ghost of the destroyed book would haunt my files for the rest
of my life.
Every summer my wife and I go buttei’fly hunting. The
specimens are deposited at scientific institutions, such as the
Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard or the Cornell
University collection. The locality labels pinned under these
butterflies will be a boon to some twenty-first-century scholar
with a taste for recondite biography. It was at such of our head­
quarters as Telluride, Colorado; Afton, Wyoming; Portal,
Arizona; and Ashland, Oregon, that Lolita was energetically
resumed in the evenings or on cloudy days. I finished copying
the thing out in longhand in the spring of 1954, and at once
began casting around for a publisher.

At first, on the advice of a wary old friend, I was meek enough
to stipulate that the book be brought out anonymously. I doubt
that I shall ever regret that soon afterwards, realizing how likely
a mask was to betray my own cause, I decided to sign Lolita. The
four American publishers, W , X , Y , Z, who in turn were offered
the typescript and had their readei's glance at it, were shocked
by Lolita to a degree that even my wary old friend F. P. had not
expected.
. While it is true that in ancient Europe, and well into the
eighteenth century (obvious examples come from France), de­
liberate lewdness was not inconsistent with flashes of comedy, or
vigorous satire, or even the verve of a fine poet in a wanton mood,
it is also true that in modern times the term ‘pornography5 con­
notes mediocrity, commercialism and certain strict rules of
narration. Obscenity must be mated with banality because every
kind of aesthetic enjoyment has to be entirely replaced by simple
sexual stimulation which demands the traditional word for direct
action upon the patient. O ld rigid rules must be followed by the
pornographer in order to have his patient feel the same security
of satisfaction as, for example, fans of detective stories feel—
stories where, if you do not watch out, the real murderer may turn
out to be, to the fan’s disgust, artistic originality (who for instance
would want a detective story without a single dialogue in it?).
Thus, in pornographic novels, action has to be limited to the
copulation of cliches. Style, structure, imagery should never dis­
tract the reader from his tepid lust. The novel must consist of an
alternation of sexual scenes. The passages in between must be
reduced to sutures o f sense, logical bridges of the simplest design,
brief expositions and explanations, which the reader will probably
skip but must know they exist in order not to feel cheated (a
mentality stemming from the routine o f ‘true5 fairy tales in child­
hood). Moreover, the sexual scenes in the book must follow a
crescendo line, with new variations, new combinations, new sexes,
and a steady increase in the number of participants (in a Sade
play they call the gardener in), and therefore the end of the book
must be more replete with lewd lore than the first chapters.
Certain techniques in the beginning of Lolita (Humbert’s
Journal, for example) misled some of my first readers into assum­
ing that this was going to be a lewd book. They expected the

rising succession of erotic scenes; when these stopped, the readers
stopped, too, and felt bored and let down. This, I suspect, is one
of the reasons why not all the four firms read the typescript to
the end. Whether they found it pornographic or not did not in­
terest me. Their refusal to buy the book was based not on my
treatment of the theme but on the theme itself, for there are at
least three themes which are utterly taboo as far as most American
publishers are concerned. The two others are: a Negro-White
marriage which is a complete and glorious success resulting in
lots of children and grandchildren; and the total atheist who lives
a happy and useful life, and dies in his sleep at the age of 106,
Some of the reactions were very amusing: one reader suggested
that his firm might consider publication if I turned my Lolita into
a twelve-year-old lad and had him seduced by Humbert, a
farmer, in a barn, amidst gaunt and arid surroundings, all this
set forth in short, strong, ‘realistic’ sentences (‘He acts crazy.
We all act crazy, I guess. I guess God acts crazy’, etc,). Although
everybody should know that I detest symbols and allegories
(which is due partly to my old feud with Freudian voodooism and
partly to my loathing of generalizations devised by literary
mythists and sociologists), an otherwise intelligent reader who
flipped through the first part described Lolita as ‘Old Europe
debauching young America3, while another flipper saw in it
‘Young American debauching old Europe’. Publisher X , whose
advisers got so bored with Humbert that they never got beyond
page 188, had the naivety to write me that Part Two was too
long. Publisher Y , on the other hand, regretted there were no
good people in the book. Publisher Z said if he printed Lolita,
he and I would go to jail.
No writer in a free country should be expected to bother about
the exact demarcation between the sensuous and the sensual; this
is preposterous; I can only admire but cannot emulate the
accuracy of judgment of those who pose the fair young mammals
photographed in magazines where the general neckline is just
low enough to provoke a past master’s chuckle and just high
enough not to make a post-master frown. I presume there exist
readers who find titillating the display of mural words in those
hopelessly banal and enormous novels which are typed out by
the thumbs of tense mediocrities and called ‘powerful’ and ‘stark3

by the reviewing hack. There are gentle souls who would pro­
nounce Lolita meaningless because it does not teach them any­
thing. I am neither a reader nor a writer o f didactic fiction, and,
despite John R ay’s assertion, Lolita has no moral in tow. For me
a work of fiction exists only in so far as it affords me what I shall
bluntly call aesthetic bliss, that is a sense of being somehow, some­
where, connected with other states of being where art (curiosity,
tenderness, kindness, ecstasy) is the norm. There are not many
such books. All the rest is either topical trash or what some call
the Literature of Ideas, which very often is topical trash coming
in huge blocks of plaster that are carefully transmitted from age
to age until somebody comes along with a hammer and takes a
good crack at Balzac, at Gorki, at Mann.
Another charge which some readers have made is that Lolita is
anti-American. This is something that pains me considerably
more than the idiotic accusation of immorality. Considerations
of depth and perspective (a suburban lawn, a mountain meadow)
led me to build a number of North American sets. I needed a
certain exhilarating milieu. Nothing is more exhilarating than
philistine vulgarity. But in regard to philistine vulgarity there is
no intrinsic difference between Palearctic manners and Nearctic
manners. Any proletarian from Chicago can be as bourgeois (in
the Flaubertian sense) as a duke. I chose American motels in­
stead of Swiss hotels or English inns only because I am trying to
be an American writer and claim only the same rights that o ther
American writers enjoy. On the other hand, my creature Hum­
bert is a foreigner and an anarchist, and there are many tilings,
besides nymphets, in which I disagree with him. And all my
Russian readers know that my old worlds— Russian, British,
German, French— are just as fantastic and personal as my new
one is.
Lest the little statement I am making here seem an airing of
grudges, I must hasten to add that besides the lambs who read
the typescript of Lolita or its Olympia Press edition in a spirit o f
‘Why did he have to write it?’ or ‘W hy should I read about
maniacs?’ there have been a number of wise, sensitive and
staunch people who understood my book much better than I can
explain its mechanism here.
Every serious writer, I dare say, is aware of this or that pub-

fished book of his as of a constant comforting presence. Its pilot
light is steadily burning somewhere in the basement and a mere
touch applied to one’s private thermostat instantly results in a
quiet little explosion of familiar warmth. This presence, this glow
of the book in an ever accessible remoteness is a most companion­
able feeling, and the better the book has conformed to its pre­
figured contour and colour the ampler and smoother it glows.
But even so, there are certain points, by-roads, favourite hollows
that one evokes more eagerly and enjoys more tenderly than the
rest of one’s book. I have not re-read Lolita since I went through
the proofs in the winter of 1954 but I find it to be a delightful
presence now that it quietly hangs about the house like a summer
day which one knows to be bright behind the haze. And when I
thus think of Lolita, I seem always to pick out for special delecta­
tion such images as M r Taxovich, or that class list of Ramsdale
School, or Charlotte saying ‘waterproof’, or Lolita in slow
motion advancing toward Humbert’s gifts, or the pictures de­
corating the stylized garret of Gaston Godin, or the Kasbeam
barber (who cost me a month of work), or Lolita playing tennis,
or the hospital at Elphinstone, or pale, pregnant, beloved, irre­
trievable Dolly Schiller dying in Gray Star (the capital town of
the book), or the tinkling sounds of the valley town coming up
the mountain trail (on which I caught the first known female of
Lycaeides sublivens Nabokov). These are the nerves of the novel.
These are the secret points, the subliminal co-ordinates by means
of which the book is plotted— although I realize very clearly that
these and other scenes will be skimmed over or not noticed, or
never even reached, by those who begin reading the book under
the impression that it is something on the lines of Memoirs of a
Woman of Pleasure or Les Amours de Milord Grosvit. That my novel
\ does contain various allusions to the physiological urges of a
: pervert is quite true. But after all we are not children, not
illiterate juvenile delinquents, not English public school boys
who after a night o f homosexual romps have to endure the
paradox of reading the Ancients in expurgated, versions.
It is childish to study a work of fiction in order to gain in­
formation about a country or about a social class or about the
author. And yet one of my very few intimate friends, after
reading Lolita, was sincerely worried that I (I!) should be living
306

‘among such depressing people’— when the only discomfort I
really experienced was to live in my workshop among discarded
limbs and unfinished torsos.
After Olympia Press, in Paris, published the book, an American
critic suggested that Lolita was the record of my love affair with
the romantic novel. The substitution ‘English language’ for
‘romantic novel’ would make this elegant formula more correct.
But here I feel my voice rising to a much too strident pitch. None
of my American friends have read my Russian books and thus
every appraisal on the strength of my English ones is bound to
be out of focus. M y private tragedy, which cannot, and indeed
should not, be anybody’s concern, is that I had to abandon my
natural idiom, my untrammelled, rich and infinitely docile
Russian tongue for a second-rate brand of English, devoid of
any of those apparatuses— the baffling mirror, the black velvet
backdrop, the implied associations and traditions— which the
native illusionist, frac-tails flying, can magically use to transcend
the heritage in his own way.
November 12, 1956

J
|
|
...... J
|
|
i
j
J
|
%

A P P E N D IX

Some Critics' opinions about L O L I T A

What the world has said about L O L I T A
GREAT BRITAIN
V. S. Pritchett
Nabokov’s manner uses cool laughter and mockery. The
hasty reader may suppose him to be cynical, even if he grants
that the narrator is cold and hilarious because his situation is
hopeless and indefensible. His is the laughter of self-hatred.
Where have we heard such laughter on a taboo subject before?
In many contemporary satirists; in Aldous Huxley, above all in
Evelyn Waugh’s The Loved One. W e had better be sure about
Mr Nabokov’s laughter for it is the key to him as a serious artist,
Pornographers do not laugh. In M r Nabokov’s earlier comedies—
Pnin was published here two years ago— he has shown himself to
be a writer of original and freakish imagination, tender but also
biting. From these talented books and the epilogue to Lolita we
can deduce that, perhaps like Mr Waugh, he would say that the
only valid response to the conventional society of mass murderers
and vulgarians he has been thrown into as a displaced person,
is to mock it with a private outrage. . . .
And it is not only about sex that he is outrageous. His affair
has, on his side, a lugubrious sentimentality of which he is well
aware. He is outrageous about the highway and motel civiliza­
tion of the United States, which is brilliantly described; about
American education, summer camps, tourist spots and social
customs— there is a sly and superb interview with the head o f a
girls’ school. Finally, he is outrageous about murder. M r Nabo­
kov’s experience has left him with a gift of dissociation; the book
ends with a murder which makes our ‘respectable’ murder
mongers and classy writers of sadistic thrillers (never threatened
with prosecution) look like the fakers they are. Being comic,
Mr Nabokov’s murder is horrible. Murder is. By what perversion
of moral judgment does society regard murder as ‘clean’ and sex
as ‘dirty’ as a subject?
I can imagine no book less likely to incite the corruptible
reader; the already corrupted would surely be devastated by the
3ii

author’s power of projecting himself into their fantasy-addled
minds. As for the minors, the nymphets and schoolboys, one hardly
sees them toiling through a book written in a difficult style, filled
on every page with literary allusions, linguistic experiment and
fits of idiosyncrasy. For Mr Nabokov is a serious user of language.
A very gifted Russian, he has written many novels in his own
tongue; in turning to English he has struggled to attain a personal
style and part of its attraction— outside of some obscurities— is in
his brilliant contrasting of clichi English and its comic-shabby
overtones, with true images of his own. H e is a wonderful land­
scape painter, in the impressionist manner, his words rapidly
following his eye and catching scores of beautifully exact frag­
ments of the life of the American road. . . .
Fie sticks to a lately unpopular doctrine when his protagonist
says that the only amends he can make his victim is ‘transfigura­
tion in a work of art5. It was Flenry James’s view, too. A senti­
mentalist would have sounded more respectable if he had ground
Lolita down with moral objurgations and melodramatic talk of
her personal redemption. A tragic writer might bring that off;
a comic writer, no. But the transfiguration has taken place: this
is not a pornographic work.
Graham Greene
It is a distinguished novel.
Philip Toynbee
Written in a style of startling beauty and originality. Also
it is pervasively and continuously funny, with a humour which
is both savage and farcical.
M aurice Cranston in the Manchester Guardian
A strong, a disturbing book . . . it is largely concerned with
Humbert’s youth and is intended to trace, in the Freudian fashion,
the origins of the man’s obsession. But the interest of the book is
as much literary as psychological. The way in which the author
uses humour, sometimes farce, to relieve the tension of his
claustrophobic narrative is particularly striking.

George M illar in the Daily Express
Brought to life and even beauty by writing of tremendous
vitality and variety of mood and texture. Everything is here,
cruelty, learning, robust humour, pathos, romanticism, true
affection.
Kenneth Allsop in the Daily M ail
Brilliantly written . . . a disquietingly sombre exposure of a
pervert’s mind, and finally dreadfully moral in its almost melo­
dramatic summing up of the wages of this particular sin.
Bernard Levin in The Spectator
Massive, unflagging, moral, exquisitely shaped, enormously
vital, enormously funny— Lolita is certain of a permanent place
on the very highest shelf of the world’s didactic literature.
Lord Bootbby in the Sunday Dispatch
A scarifying indictment of the kind of perversion with which
:it'deals..'
Terence Rattigan
I think it an extraordinary book, very moving, very funny
and very true. It is also, I admit, genuinely shocking, but in a way
in which only a work of the highest moral purpose could possibly
be. I congratulate the author most sincerely on a very high
literary achievement.
Letter to the Editor o f The Times printed on Jan u ary 23, 1959
Sir,
We are disturbed by the suggestion that it may yet prove
impossible to have an English edition of Vladim ir Nabokov’s
Lolita. Our opinions of the merit of the work differ widely, but
we think it would be deplorable if a book of considerable literary
interest, which has been favourably received by distinguished
critics and widely praised in serious and respectable periodicals,
were to be denied an appearance in this country. Prosecutions of

genuine works o f literature bring governments into disrepute and
do nothing to encourage public morality. When today we read
the proceedings against Madame Bovary or Ulysses— works
genuinely found shocking by many of their contemporaries— it is
Flaubert and Joyce whom we admire not the Public Prosecutors
of the time. Let good sense spare us another such case.
Yours, etc.,
J. R . Ackerley
Iris Murdoch
Walter Allen
William Plomer
A. Alvarez
V . S. Pritchett
Isaiah Berlin
Alan Pryce-Jones
G. M. Bowra
Peter Quennell
Storm Jameson
Herbert Read
Frank Kermode
Stephen Spender
Allen Lane
Philip Toynbee
Margaret Lane
Bernard Wall
Rosamund Lehmann
Angus Wilson
Compton Mackenzie

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lionel Trilling
I think that the real reason why M r Nabokov chose his out­
rageous subject matter is that he wanted to write a story about
love.
Lolita is about love. Perhaps I shall be better understood if
I put the statement in this form: Lolita is not about sex, but about
love. Almost every page sets forth some explicit erotic emotion
or some overt erotic action and still it is not about sex. It is about
love. This makes it unique in my experience of contemporary
novels. . . .
In recent fiction no lover has thought o f his beloved with so
much tenderness . . . no woman has been so charmingly evoked,
in such grace and delicacy, as Lolita; it is one of the few examples
of rapture in modern writing. . . .
For me one of the attractions of Lolita is its ambiguity of
tone and its ambiguity of intention, its ability to arouse uneasi­

3*4

ness, to throw the reader off balance, to require him to change his
stance and shift his position and move on., Lolita gives us no
chance to settle and sink roots. Perhaps it is the curious moral
mobility it urges on us that accounts for its remarkable ability
to represent certain aspects of American life.
Taylor Caldwell
In my opinion, Aristophanes never wrote so broad a comedy,
so delightfully and charmingly written, so sardonic and devastat­
ing. O f course, I do not recommend it as required reading for
any children from eight to eighty. . . . This novel has a destructive
fire directed at all American ‘fun’, from sun-fun, sun-tanned, sun­
glasses, sun-relaxed, sun-joy, and the other puerile materialistic
and sickening fun of the perpetually adolescent American
people. I’ve long yearned to hear someone blast at the superficial
culture of earnest housewives, child-worship, progressive educa­
tion and bigger and better this-and-thaia. Now it’s been done.
And let’s have more of it. (How about ‘togetherness’?)
James M . Gain
The book is outstanding, and Putnam’s deserves a round of
applause for bringing it out.
M eyer Levin
To me, Lolita was the most exciting reading experience in
the modern novel since Joyce’s Ulysses. You have to go all the way
back to Ulysses for a comparable feeling of newness and validity.
Dorothy Parker
Lolita is a fine book, a distinguished book— all right, then—
a great book.
Gene Baro in the New York Herald Tribune
Nabokov does not make vice attractive. His hero is an
idealist, by turns cynical and sentimental, made conscious by the

falsity of his own life of the falsity of the lives and values around
him. . . .
The writing is always alive, the characterizations firm, the
social insights wryly intelligent. . . .
In this novel everything is lightly spoofed but human
suffering and the consolatory nature of art.

G ranville Hicks in the Saturday Review
I am sure that the future will exonerate Lolita from the
charge of pornography as completely as we have exonerated
Ulysses.

Lewis V ogler in the San Francisco Chronicle
Some readers may find Lolita offensive. It is a strange com­
bination of roman noir and hot-potato. But more accurately it is an
authentic work of art which compels our immediate response
and serious reflection— a revealing and indispensable comedy of
horrors.

Time
Lolita is a major work of fiction; it is also a shocking book.
As far as erotic detail is concerned, the book tells little that has
not been dealt with in a lot of best-selling fiction; but where the
sexy best-sellers talk about the sordid or tragic facts of life in
staccato sociology, couch jargon or four-letter words, Lolita is the
more shocking because it is both intensely lyrical and wildly funny.
It is (in many of its pages) a Medusa’s head with trick paper
snakes, and its punning comedy as well as its dark poetics will
disappoint the smut hounds— a solemn breed.

Charles Rolo in Harper's Magazine
Above all Lolita seems to me an assertion of the power of the
comic spirit to wrest delight and truth from the most outlandish
materials. It is one of the funniest serious novels I have ever read.

FRANCE

Dominique A ury in La Nouvelle Revue Frangaise
Lolita is not a scandal, it is a masterpiece.
Claude Julien in Le Monde
Unlike contemporary American novels, Lolita contains no
erotic descriptions and no coarse words. It is wholly dedicated to
the hopes, emotions and agonies of this mature man who becomes
the slave of the child he loves. These emotions are probably more
disturbing than the most realistic physical descriptions.
Kleber Haedens in Paris Presse
Lolita imposes [on the reader] a vision of the world which is
new, ardent and sensitive by its surprising mixture of irony,
profundity, humour, anxiety and emotion. It is also a very in­
telligent book. Perhaps this is why it is shocking.
Robert Kem p in Nouvelles Litteraires
It is a work of art, subtle, fragile, stylistically curious and
written with a delicacy which could almost be called fastidious.
Francois-Regis Bastid in Arts
We live such petty lives that it takes us some time to get
used to it when a book of this power appears.

GERMANY
Thomas K arl in the Somtagsblatt
Readers of this book who expect either elegant, bitter-sweet
titillation k la Sagan or the relentless crudities of the so-called
realists— in short, pornography sweet or sour— will be dis­
appointed. Nabokov writes literature of a high quality. Influenced
by Poe and Baudelaire, he writes as an artist and a poet of
cosmopolitan irony. His novel is a great passionate, one might

3*7

even say romantic, love story and precisely not a ‘realist1 or I
psycho-analytical story about sex.
Lolita is not a work whose full meaning can be grasped
immediately; the book raises many questions and often leaves
them in the air. Certainly it is not pornography, and equally
certainly it is not a moral book nor one which moralizes, as some 1
critics have maintained. The only unwavering point in this
uncomfortable and genuinely non-conformist story is Humbert’s
waywardness, his unfettered egocentricity, the unanswering
ruthlessness o f his nature. It is, however, an undoubted fact that
all this has been transmuted into art, into a piece of significant
and arresting literature.
ITALY
A lberto M oravia
A very beautiful novel.
E lio V itto rin i
*
O nly illiterate bigots or dimwits could find anything offen­
sive or scandalous in this novel.
SWITZERLAND
Jean Bloch-M ichel in the Gazette de Lausanne
Let me add at once that this novel does not contain a single
pornographic passage, nor a single indecent or coarse word and
that its strange eroticism is expressed in terms which stem from
art alone. It is an exceptional novel, for its quality, its resonance
and its achievement.
NORWAY
Erling Christie in Aftenposien
T o try to ignore the fact that Lolita is an unpleasant,
harrowing book is as useless as to try'’ to deny that it is a beautiful
^

■■■

■

?

**

book. For, paradoxically enough, Lolita is one of the most
beautiful and one of the most brilliant descriptions of love in
modern literature.
. . . If one wishes to see something more in it than an epic
of love, it is in the highest degree a bitter and searing contem­
porary satire.

FINLAND

Heikki Brqtherus in Soumen Kuvalehti
■ A masterpiece of narrative, an incredibly penetrating psycho­
analytical study and brilliantly descriptive. It has been called the
most depressing and most entertaining book ever written.

DENMARK
Tom Kristensen in Politiken
Vladimir Nabokov is obviously influenced by James Joyce
and T . S. Eliot— he can write a pastiche of T . S. Eliot as easily
as scratching his back. . . . The novel is also a nightmare of
cunning and persecution mania and strikes the strangest three­
fold chord of passion, desperate humour and dramatic irony.

