BRAVE NEW WORLD

BOOKS BY ALDOUS HUXLEY
ESSAYS AND BELLES LETTRES
Island

On Art and Artists

The Genius and the Goddess
Ape and Essence
Time Must Have a Stop

Brave New World Revisited
Tomorrow and Tomorrow

After Many a Summer Dies the

Swan
Eyeless in Gaza

Point Counter Point
Those Barreti Leaves
Antic Hay
Crome Yellow
Brave New World

Collective Essays

and Tomorrow
Heaven and Hell

The Doors of Perception
The Devils of Loudun
Themes and Variations
Ends and Means
Texts and Pretexts

The Olive Tree
Music at Night

SHORT STORIES
Collected Short Stories
Brief Candles
Two or Three Graces

Limbo
Mexican
Mortal Coils

Little

Vulgarity in Literature

Do What You Will
Proper Studies
Jesting Pilate

Along the Road
On the Margin
Essays New and Old

The Art of Seeing
The Perennial Philosophy
Science, Liberty

and Peace

TRAVEL

The Cicadas

Beyond the Mexique Bay

Leda

SELECTED WORKS

—

Mortal Coils A Play
The World of Light
The Discovery, adapted from
Frances Sheridan

Rotunda
The World of Aldous Huxley

BIOGRAPHY
Grey Eminence

BRAVE NEW WORLD
A

NOVEL
by

Aldous Huxley
With a Foreword for
this Edition

Harper & Row, Publishers

NEW YORK AND EVANSTON
PUBLIC LIBRARY
OF THE

CITY

OF DENVER

E73C362

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Copyright, 1932, 1946, by Aldous Huxley
Printed in the United States of America
All rights in this book are reserved. It may not be
used for dramatic, motion- or talking-picture purposes without written authorization from the
holder of these rights. Nor may the book or part
thereof be reproduced in any manner whatsoever
without permission in writing except in the case of
brief quotations embodied in critical articles and
reviews. For information address: Harper & Row,
Publishers, Incorporated, 49 East 33rd Street, New
York 16, N. Y.

H 97«U

Les utopies apparaissent comme bien plus realisables
qu'on ne le crqyait autrefois.
actuellement

devant

une

Et nous nous trouvons

question

bien

autrement

angoissante: Comment eviter leur realisation definitive?
.

.

.

Les utopies sont realisables.

les utopies.
t-il,

La vie marche vers

Et peut-etre un siecle nouveau commence-

un siecle oil les intellectuels et la classe cultivee

reveront aux moyens d? eviter les utopies et de retourner

a une societe non utopique, moins "parfaite" et plus
libre.

—nigolas berdiaeff.

FOREWORD
Chronic remorse, as all the moralists are agreed, is a
most undesirable sentiment. If you have behaved
badly, repent, make what amends you can and
address yourself to the task of behaving better next
time. On no account brood over your wrongdoing.
Rolling in the muck is not the best way of getting
clean.

Art also has its morality, and many of the rules
of this morality are the same as, or at least analogous
to

the rules of ordinary ethics. Remorse, for ex-

ample, is as undesirable in relation to our bad art as
it is in relation to our bad behaviour. The badness
should be hunted out, acknowledged and, if possible,
avoided in the future. To pore over the literary
shortcomings of twenty years ago, to attempt to patch
a faulty work into the perfection it missed at its first

execution, to spend one's middle age in trying to

BRAVE NEW WORLD

viii

mend the artistic sins committed and bequeathed by
that different person who was oneself in youth
all
this is surely vain and futile. And that is why this
new Brave New World is the same as the old one.

—

Its defects as a

work of art are considerable; but in

order to correct them I should have to rewrite the

book

—and

in the process of rewriting, as an older,

other person, I should probably get rid not only of

some of the faults of the story, but also of such merits
as it originally possessed.

And so, resisting the temp-

tation to wallow in artistic remorse, I prefer to leave

both well and ill alone and to think about something
else.

In the meantime, however, it seems worth while at
least to mention the most serious defect in the story,

which is this. The Savage is offered only two alternatives, an insane life in Utopia, or the life of a primitive in an Indian village, a life more human in some
respects, but in others hardly less queer and abnormal. At the time the book was written this idea, that

human beings are given free will in order to choose
between insanity on the one hand and lunacy on the
one that I found amusing and regarded
as quite possibly true. For the sake, however, of

other, was

dramatic effect, the Savage is often permitted to speak

more rationally than his upbringing among the pracand
half Penitente ferocity would actually warrant. Even
his acquaintance with Shakespeare would not in
titioners of a religion that

is

half fertility cult

BRAVE NEW WORLD
reality justify

ix

such utterances. And at the close, of

course, he is made to retreat from sanity; his native

Penitente-ism reasserts its authority and he ends in

maniacal self-torture and despairing suicide.
so they died miserably ever after"

—much

"And

to the reas-

surance of the amused, Pyrrhonic aesthete who was
the author of the fable.

Today I feel no wish to demonstrate that sanity
is

impossible. On the contrary, though I remain no

less

sadly certain than in the past that sanity

rather rare

phenomenon,

I

is

a

am convinced that it

can be achieved and would like to see more of it= For

having said so in several recent books and, above all,
for having compiled

an anthology of what the sane

have said about sanity and the means whereby it can
be achieved, I have been told by an eminent academic
critic that I

am a sad symptom of the failure of an
The implication

intellectual class in time of crisis.

being, I suppose, that the professor and his colleagues
are hilarious symptoms of success.

The benefactors

due honour and commemoration. Let us build a Pantheon for professors. It should

of humanity deserve

be located among the ruins of one of the gutted cities
of Europe or Japan, and over the entrance to the
ossuary I would inscribe, in letters six or seven feet

Sacred to the Memory
of the World's Educators. SI

high, the simple words:

MONUMENTUM

REQUIRIS CIRCUMSPICE.
But to return to the future ... If I were now

BRAVE NEW WORLD

x

to rewrite the book, I would offer the Savage a third

alternative.

Between the Utopian and the primitive

horns of his dilemma would
sanity

—

a

possibility

already

lie

the possibility of

actualized,

to

some

extent, in a community of exiles and refugees from

the Brave New World, living within the borders of
the Reservation. In this community economics would

be decentralist and Henry-Georgian, politics Kropotkinesque and co-operative. Science and technology

would be used as though, like the Sabbath, they had
been made for man, not (as at present and still more
so in the Brave New World) as though man were to
be adapted and enslaved to them. Religion would be
the conscious and intelligent pursuit of man's Final
End, the unitive knowledge of the immanent Tao or
Logos, the transcendent Godhead or Brahman. And
the prevailing philosophy of life would be a kind of
Higher Utilitarianism, in which the Greatest Happiness principle would be secondary to the Final End
principle
the first question to be asked and an-

—

swered in every contingency of life being: "How will
this

thought or action contribute

with, the achievement, by me
sible

to,

or interfere

and the greatest pos-

number of other individuals, of man's Final

End?"
Brought up among the primitives, the Savage (in
this hypothetical new version of the book) would
not be transported to Utopia until he had had an
opportunity of learning something at first hand

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xi

about the nature of a society composed of freely cooperating individuals devoted
sanity.

to

the

pursuit

of

Thus altered, Brave New World would pos-

sess an artistic and (if it is permissible to use so large

a word in connection with a work of fiction) a philo-

sophical completeness, which in

its

present form it

evidently lacks.

But Brave New World is a book about the future
and, whatever its artistic or philosophical qualities,

book about the future can interest us only if its
prophecies look as though they might conceivably
come true. From our present vantage point, fifteen
a

years further

down the inclined plane of modern

how plausible do its prognostications seem?
What has happened in the painful interval to conhistory,

firm or invalidate the forecasts of 1931?

One

and obvious failure of foresight is
immediately apparent. Brave New World contains
no reference to nuclear fission. That it does not is
vast

actually rather odd; for the possibilities of atomic

energy had been a popular topic of conversation for

book was written. My old friend,
Robert Nichols, had even written a successful play
about the subject, and I recall that I myself had
casually mentioned it in a novel published in the late
twenties. So it seems, as I say, very odd that the
rockets and helicopters of the seventh century of
Our Ford should not have been powered by disinyears before the

tegrating nuclei. The oversight may not be excusable;

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xii

but at least it can be easily explained. The theme of
Brave New World is not the advancement of science
as such;

it is

the advancement of science as it affects

human individuals. The triumphs of physics, chemistry and engineering are tacitly taken for granted. The
only scientific advances to be specifically described
are those involving the application to human beings
of the results of future research in biology, physiology

and psychology. It is only by means of the sciences
of life that the quality of life can be radically changed.

The sciences of matter can be applied in such a way
that they will destroy life or

make the living of it

impossibly complex and uncomfortable; but, unless

used as instruments by the biologists and psychologists,

they can do nothing to modify the natural

forms and expressions of life

itself.

The release of

atomic energy marks a great revolution in human

but not (unless we blow ourselves to bits
and so put an end to history) the final and most
history,

searching revolution.

This really revolutionary revolution is to be
achieved, not in the external world, but in the souls
and flesh of human beings. Living as he did in a
revolutionary period, the Marquis de Sade very
naturally made use of this theory of revolutions in

order to rationalize his peculiar brand of insanity.

Robespierre had achieved the most superficial kind
of revolution, the political.

Going a little deeper,

Babeuf had attempted the economic revolution. Sade

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xiii

regarded himself as the apostle of the truly revolu-

mere politics and economics the revolution in individual men, women
and children, whose bodies were henceforward to
tionary revolution, beyond

—

become the common sexual property of all and whose
minds were to be purged of all the natural decencies,
all the laboriously acquired inhibitions of traditional

Between sadism and the really revolutionary revolution there is, of course, no necessary or
inevitable connection. Sade was a lunatic and the
more or less conscious goal of his revolution was
universal chaos and destruction. The people who

civilization.

govern the Brave New World may not be sane (in

what may be called the absolute sense of that word);
but they are not madmen, and their aim is not anarchy but social stability.

It is in

order to achieve

stability that they carry out, by scientific means, the

ultimate, personal, really revolutionary revolution.

But meanwhile we are in the first phase of what is
perhaps the penultimate revolution.

Its

next phase

may be atomic warfare, in which case we do not
have to bother with prophecies about the future.

But it is conceivable that we may have enough sense,
if

not to stop fighting altogether, at least to behave

as rationally as did our eighteenth-century ancestors.

The unimaginable horrors of the Thirty Years War
actually taught men a lesson, and for more than a
hundred years the politicians and generals of Europe
consciously resisted the temptation to use their mili-

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xiv

tary resources to the limits of destructiveness or (in

the majority of conflicts) to go on fighting until the

enemy was totally annihilated. They were aggressors,
of course, greedy for profit and glory; but they were
also conservatives,

determined

at all costs to

their world intact, as a going concern.

keep

For the last

thirty years there have been no conservatives; there

have been only nationalistic radicals of the right and
nationalistic radicals of the left. The last conservative

statesman was the fifth Marquess of Lansdowne; and

when he wrote a letter to the Times, suggesting that
the First World War should be concluded with a
compromise, as most of the wars of the eighteenth
century had been, the editor of that once conservative journal refused

radicals

to print

it.

The nationalistic

had their way, with the consequences that

we all know

— Bolshevism, Fascism,

sion, Hitler,

the Second

inflation, depres-

World War,

the ruin of

Europe and all but universal famine.
Assuming, then, that we are capable of learning
as much from Hiroshima as our forefathers learned
from Magdeburg, we may look forward to a period,
not indeed of peace, but of limited and only partially
ruinous warfare. During that period it may be
assumed that nuclear energy will be harnessed to industrial uses. The result, pretty obviously, will be a
series of economic and social changes unprecedented

and completeness. All the existing patterns of human life will be disrupted and new

in rapidity

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xv

patterns will have to be improvised to conform with
the

nonhuman fact of atomic power. Procrustes in

modern dress, the nuclear scientist will prepare the
bed on which mankind must lie; and if mankind
doesn't fit
well, that will be just too bad for mankind. There will have to be some stretching and a

—

bit of amputation

— the same

sort of stretchings and

amputations as have been going on ever since applied
science really got into its stride, only this time they
will be a good deal more drastic than in the past.
These far from painless operations will be directed

by

highly

centralized

Inevitably so;
to

for

totalitarian

governments.

the immediate future

resemble the immediate

past,

is

likely

and in the im-

mediate past rapid technological changes, taking
place

in

a

mass-producing economy and

among

predominantly propertyless, have always tended to produce economic and social confusion. To deal with confusion, power has been
centralized and government control increased. It is
probable that all the world's governments will be
more or less completely totalitarian even before the
harnessing of atomic energy; that they will be totalitarian during and after the harnessing seems almost
certain. Only a large-scale popular movement toward
a population

decentralization and self-help can arrest the present

tendency toward statism. At present there is no sign
that such a movement will take place.

There is, of course, no reason why the new totali-

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xvi

tarianisms should resemble the old. Government by

clubs and firing squads, by artificial famine, mass

imprisonment and mass deportation, is not merely
inhumane (nobody cares much about that nowadays); it is demonstrably inefficient
and in an age
of advanced technology, inefficiency is the sin against
the Holy Ghost. A really efficient totalitarian state
would be one in which the all-powerful executive
of political bosses and their army of managers control a population of slaves who do not have to be

—

coerced, because they love their servitude. To make

them love

it

is

the task assigned,

in

present-day

totalitarian states, to ministries of propaganda, news-

paper editors and schoolteachers. But their methods
are still crude and unscientific. The old Jesuits' boast

were given the schooling of the child,
they could answer for the man's religious opinions,
was a product of wishful thinking. And the modern
pedagogue is probably rather less efficient at conditioning his pupils' reflexes than were the reverend
fathers who educated Voltaire. The greatest triumphs
of propaganda have been accomplished, not by doing
something, but by refraining from doing. Great is
that, if they

truth, but still greater, from a practical point of view,

about truth. By simply not mentioning cerMr. Churchill calls
an "iron curtain" between the masses and such facts
is silence

tain subjects, by lowering what

or arguments as the local political bosses regard as

undesirable, totalitarian propagandists have influ-

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xvii

enced opinion much more effectively than they could
have done by the most eloquent denunciations, the

most compelling of logical rebuttals. But silence is
not enough. If persecution, liquidation and the other

symptoms of social friction are to be avoided, the
positive sides of propaganda must be made as effective as the negative. The most important Manhattan
Projects of

the

future will be vast government-

sponsored enquiries into what the politicians and
the participating scientists will call "the problem of

happiness"

— other words,
in

the problem of making

Without economic
security, the love of servitude cannot possibly come

people

love

their

servitude.

into existence; for the sake of brevity, I assume that

the all-powerful executive and its managers will suc-

ceed in solving the problem of permanent security.

But security tends very quickly

to

be taken for

granted. Its achievement is merely a superficial, exter-

nal revolution. The love of servitude cannot be established except as the result of a deep, personal revolu-

human minds and bodies. To bring about
that revolution we require, among others, the followtion in

ing discoveries and inventions. First, a greatly im-

proved technique of suggestion

— through infant con-

ditioning and, later, with the aid of drugs, such as

scopolamine. Second, a fully developed science of

human differences, enabling government managers
any given individual to his or her proper
place in the social and economic hierarchy. (Round
to assign

xviii

BRAVE NEW WORLD

pegs in square holes tend to have dangerous thoughts

about the

and to infect others with
their discontents.) Third (since reality, however
Utopian, is something from which people feel the
need of taking pretty frequent holidays), a substitute
for alcohol and the other narcotics, something at once
less harmful and more pleasure-giving than gin or
heroin. And fourth (but this would be a long-term
project, which it would take generations of totalisocial system

tarian control to bring to a successful conclusion) a

foolproof system of eugenics, designed to standardize
the human product and so to facilitate the task of the

managers. In Brave New World this standardization
of the human product has been pushed to fantastic,

though not perhaps impossible, extremes. Technically and ideologically we are still a long way from bottled babies and Bokanovsky groups of semi-morons.
But by a. f. 600, who knows what may not be happening? Meanwhile the other characteristic features of
that happier and more stable world
the equivalents
of soma and hypnopaedia and the scientific caste system are probably not more than three or four gen-

—

—

Nor does the sexual promiscuity of
Brave New World seem so very distant. There are
already certain American cities in which the number
of divorces is equal to the number of marriages. In
erations away.

a few years, no doubt, marriage licenses will be sold
like dog licenses, good for a period of twelve months,

with no law against changing dogs or keeping more

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xix

than one animal at a time. As political and economic
freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends compensatingly to increase. And the dictator (unless he needs

cannon fodder and families with which to colonize
empty or conquered territories) will do well to encourage that freedom. In conjunction with the free-

dom to daydream under the influence of dope and
movies and the radio,

it

will help to reconcile his

subjects to the servitude which is their fate.

All things considered it looks as though Utopia
were far closer to us than anyone, only fifteen years
ago, could have imagined. Then, I projected it six

hundred years into the future. Today it seems quite
possible that the horror may be upon us within a
single century. That is, if we refrain from blowing
ourselves to smithereens in the interval. Indeed, unless

we choose to decentralize and to use applied

science, not as the end to which human beings are to

be made the means, but as the means to producing a
race of free individuals, we have only two alternatives
to choose from: either a number of national, militar-

ized totalitarianisms, having as their root the terror

of the atomic

destruction

of

bomb and as their consequence the
civilization

(or,

if

the

warfare

is

limited, the perpetuation of militarism); or else one

supra-national totalitarianism, called into existence

by the social chaos resulting from rapid technological
progress in general and the atomic revolution in
particular, and developing, under the need for

BRAVE NEW WORLD

xx

and stability, into the welfare-tyranny of
You pays your money and you takes your

efficiency

Utopia.
choice.

BRAVE NEW WORLD

(V^fcWO
CHAPTER ONE

A squat grey building of only thirty-four

stories.

Over the main entrance the words, Central
London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre,
and, in a shield, the World State's motto, Community, Identity, Stability.

The enormous room on the ground floor faced
towards the north. Cold for all the summer beyond
the panes, for all the tropical heat of the room itself,
a harsh thin light glared through the windows,
hungrily seeking some draped lay figure, some pallid

shape of academic goose-flesh, but finding only the
glass

and nickel and bleakly shining porcelain of

a laboratory. Wintriness responded to wintriness.
The overalls of the workers were white, their hands
gloved with a pale corpse-coloured rubber. The
light was frozen, dead, a ghost. Only from the yellow
barrels of the microscopes did

it

borrow a certain

BRAVE NEW WORLD
rich

and living substance, lying along the polished

tubes like butter, streak after luscious streak in long
recession down the work tables.

"And this," said the Director opening the door,
"is the Fertilizing Room."
Bent over their instruments, three hundred Ferwere plunged, as the Director of Hatcheries
and Conditioning entered the room, in the scarcelybreathing silence, the absent-minded, soliloquizing
hum or whistle, of absorbed concentration. A troop
of newly arrived students, very young, pink and
tilizers

callow, followed nervously, rather abjectly, at the

Each of them carried a notebook,
in which, whenever the great man spoke, he desDirector's heels.

perately scribbled. Straight from the horse's mouth.
It was a rare privilege. The D.H.C. for Central

London always made a point of personally conducting his new students round the various departments.
"Just to give you a general idea," he would ex-

plain to them. For of course some sort of general idea

they must have, if they were to do their work inthough as little of one, if they were to be
telligently

—

good and happy members of society, as possible.
For particulars, as every one knows, make for virtue
and happiness; generalities are intellectually necessary evils. Not philosophers but fret-sawyers and
stamp collectors compose the backbone of society.
"To-morrow," he would add, smiling at them
with a slightly menacing geniality, "you'll be set-

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
tling

down to serious work. You won't have time

for generalities. Meanwhile

.

.

."

Meanwhile, it was a privilege. Straight from the
horse's mouth into the notebook. The boys scribbled
like mad.

Tall and rather thin but upright, the Director
advanced into the room. He had a long chin and big,
rather prominent teeth, just covered, when he was
not talking, by his full, floridly curved lips. Old,
young? Thirty? Fifty? Fifty-five? It was hard to say.

And anyhow the question didn't arise; in this year
of stability, a.f. 632, it didn't occur to you to ask it.
"I shall begin at the beginning," said the D.H.G.

and the more zealous students recorded his intention
in their notebooks: Begin at the beginning. "These,"

he waved his hand, "are the incubators." And opening an insulated door he showed them racks upon
racks of numbered test-tubes. "The week's supply of

ova. Kept," he explained, "at blood heat; whereas
the male gametes,"

and here he opened another

door, "they have to be kept at thirty-five instead

of thirty-seven. Full blood heat

sterilizes."

Rams

wrapped in theremogene beget no lambs.
Still leaning against the incubators he gave them,

while the pencils scurried illegibly across the pages,
a brief description of the modern fertilizing process;

spoke first, of course, of its surgical introduction
"the operation undergone voluntarily for the good
of Society, not to mention the fact that it carries a

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
bonus amounting to six months' salary"; continued
with some account of the technique for preserving
the excised ovary alive and actively developing;
passed on to a consideration of optimum temperature,

salinity,

viscosity;

referred to the liquor in

which the detached and ripened eggs were kept;
and, leading his charges to the work tables, actually
showed them how this liquor was drawn off from
the test-tubes; how it was let out drop by drop onto
the specially warmed slides of the microscopes; how
the eggs which it contained were inspected for ab-

and transferred to a porous
receptacle; how (and he now took them to watch the
operation) this receptacle was immersed in a warm
normalities, counted

bouillon containing free-swimming spermatozoa
at a minimum concentration of one hundred thou-

sand per cubic centimetre, he

insisted;

and how,

after ten minutes, the container was lifted out of the

liquor and its contents re-examined; how, if any of

the eggs remained unfertilized,

mersed, and,

if necessary,

it

was again im-

yet again;

how the ferti-

lized ova went back to the incubators; where the
Alphas and Betas remained until definitely bottled;
while the Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons were

brought out again, after only thirty-six hours, to
undergo Bokanovsky's Process.
"Bokanovsky's Process," repeated the Director,
and the students underlined the words in their little
notebooks.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
One egg, one embryo, one adult —normality. But
a bokanovskified egg will bud, will proliferate, will
divide. From eight to ninety-six buds, and every bud
will grow into a perfectly formed embryo, and every

embryo into a full-sized adult. Making ninety-six

human beings grow where only one grew before.
Progress.

"Essentially," the

D.H.C. concluded, "bokanov-

skification consists of a series of arrests of develop-

ment. We check the normal growth and, paradoxically enough, the egg responds by budding."
Responds by budding. The pencils were busy.

He pointed. On a very slowly moving band a
was entering a large metal
box, another rack-full was emerging. Machinery

rack-full of test-tubes

faintly purred. It took eight minutes for the tubes

to go through, he told them. Eight minutes of hard

X-rays being about as much as an egg can stand. A
few died; of the rest, the least susceptible divided
into two; most put out four buds; some eight; all
were returned to the incubators, where the buds began to develop; then, after two days, were suddenly

and checked. Two, four, eight, the
buds in their turn budded; and having budded were
chilled, chilled

dosed almost to death with alcohol; consequently
burgeoned again and having budded bud out of

—
—were thereafter—further arrest
to develop in peace. By
being generally fatal —

bud out of bud

left

which time the original egg was in a fair way to

BRAVE NEW WORLD
becoming anything from eight to ninety-six ema prodigious improvement, you will agree, on

bryos

—

nature. Identical twins

—but not in piddling twos

and threes as in the old viviparous days, when an egg
would sometimes accidentally divide; actually by
dozens, by scores at a time.
"Scores," the Director repeated and flung out
his arms, as though he were distributing largesse.
"Scores."

But one of the students was fool enough to ask
where the advantage lay.
"My good boy!" The Director wheeled sharply
round on him. "Can't you see? Can't you see?"
He raised a hand; his expression was solemn. "Bokanovsky's Process is one of the major instruments
of social stability!"

Major instruments of social stability.
Standard men and women; in uniform batches.
The whole of a small factory staffed with the products of a single bokanovskified egg.

"Ninety-six

identical

twins

working ninety-six

The voice was almost tremulous with enthusiasm. "You really know where you
identical machines!"

are.

For the first time in history." He quoted the

planetary motto. "Community, Identity, Stability."

Grand words. "If we could bokanovskify indefinitely the whole problem would be solved."

Solved by standard Gammas, unvarying Deltas,

uniform Epsilons. Millions of identical twins. The

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
principle

of mass production at last applied

to

biology.

"But, alas," the Director shook his head,

"we

can't bokanovskify indefinitely."

Ninety-six seemed to be the limit; seventy- two a

good average. From the same ovary and with gametes of the same male to manufacture as many
batches of identical twins as possible that was the

—

best (sadly a second best) that they could do. And

even that was difficult.
"For in nature it takes thirty years for two hundred
eggs to reach maturity. But our business is to stabilize
the population at this moment, here and now.
Dribbling out twins over a quarter of a century

what would be the use of that?"
Obviously, no use at all. But Podsnap's Technique
had immensely accelerated the process of ripening.
They could make sure of at least a hundred and
fifty mature eggs within two years. Fertilize and
bokanovskify in other words, multiply by seventytwo and you get an average of nearly eleven thousand brothers and sisters in a hundred and fifty
batches of identical twins, all within two years of
the same age.

—

—

"And in exceptional cases we can make one ovary
yield us over fifteen thousand adult individuals."

Beckoning to a fair-haired, ruddy young man who
to be passing at the moment, "Mr.
Foster," he called. The ruddy young man ap-

happened

BRAVE NEW WORLD
proached. "Can you tell us the record for a single
ovary, Mr. Foster?"

"Sixteen thousand and twelve in this Centre,"

Mr. Foster replied without hesitation. He spoke very
quickly, had a vivacious blue eye, and took an
evident pleasure in quoting figures. "Sixteen thou-

sand and twelve; in one hundred and eighty-nine
batches of identicals. But of course they've done
much better," he rattled on, "in some of the tropical
Centres. Singapore has often produced over sixteen
thousand five hundred; and Mombasa has actually
touched the seventeen thousand mark. But then they

have unfair advantages. You should see the way a
negro ovary responds to pituitary! It's quite astonishing, when you're used to working with European
material. Still," he added, with a laugh (but the
light of combat was in his eyes and the lift of his chin

was challenging), "still, we mean to beat them if we
can. I'm working on a wonderful Delta-Minus ovary
at this moment. Only just eighteen months old.
Over twelve thousand seven hundred children already, either decanted or in embryo. And still going
strong. We'll beat them yet."
"That's the spirit I like!" cried the Director, and
clapped Mr. Foster on the shoulder. "Come along
with us and give these boys the benefit of your
expert knowledge."

Mr. Foster smiled modestly. "With pleasure."

They went.

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
In the Bottling Room all was harmonious bustle
and ordered activity. Flaps of fresh sow's peritoneum

ready cut to the proper size came shooting up in
little lifts from the Organ Store in the sub-basement.

Whizz and then, click! the lift-hatches flew open;
the bottle-liner had only to reach out a hand, take
the flap, insert, smooth-down, and before the lined
bottle had had time to travel out of reach along the
endless band, whizz, click! another flap of perito-

neum had shot up from the depths, ready to be
slipped into yet another bottle, the next of that slow

interminable procession on the band.

Next to the Liners stood the Matriculators. The
procession advanced; one by one the eggs were
transferred from their test-tubes to the larger containers; deftly the peritoneal lining was slit, the
morula dropped into place, the saline solution
and already the bottle had passed,
poured in
and it was the turn of the labellers. Heredity, date of
fertilization, membership of Bokanovsky Group
details were transferred from test-tube to bottle.
No longer anonymous, but named, identified, the
procession marched slowly on; on through an opening in the wall, slowly on into the Social Predestina.

.

.

tion Room.

"Eighty-eight cubic metres of card-index," said

Mr. Foster with relish, as they entered.
"Containing all the relevant information," added
the Director.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Brought up to date every morning."

"And co-ordinated every afternoon."

"On the basis of which they make their calculations."

"So many individuals, of such and such quality,"
said Mr. Foster.
"Distributed in such and such quantities."
"The optimum Decanting Rate at any given
moment."
"Unforeseen wastages promptly made good."
"Promptly," repeated Mr. Foster. "If you knew
the amount of overtime I had to put in after the
last

Japanese

earthquake!"

He

laughed

good-

humouredly and shook his head.

"The Predestinators send in their figures to the
Fertilizers."

"Who give them the embryos they ask for."
"And the bottles come in here to be predestinated
in detail."

"After which they are sent down to the Embryo
Store."

"Where we now proceed ourselves."
And opening a door Mr. Foster led the way down
a staircase into the basement.
The temperature was still tropical.

They

de-

scended into a thickening twilight. Two doors and a
passage with a double turn insured the cellar against
any possible infiltration of the day.
"Embryos are like photograph film," said Mr.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Foster waggishly, as he pushed open the second door.

"They can only stand red light."

And in effect the sultry darkness into which the
students now followed him was visible and crimson,
like the darkness of closed eyes on a summer's after-

noon. The bulging flanks of row on receding row and
tier above tier of bottles glinted with innumerable

and among the rubies moved the dim red
spectres of men and women with purple eyes and all
the symptoms of lupus. The hum and rattle of
machinery faintly stirred the air.
"Give them a few figures, Mr. Foster," said the
Director, who was tired of talking.
Mr. Foster was only too happy to give them a few
rubies,

figures.

Two hundred and twenty metres long, two hundred wide, ten high. He pointed upwards. Like
chickens drinking,

the students lifted their eyes

towards the distant ceiling.

Three tiers of racks: ground floor level, first gallery, second gallery.

The spidery steel-work of gallery above gallery
faded away in

Near
them three red ghosts were busily unloading demijohns from a moving staircase.
all

directions into the dark.

The escalator from
Room.
Each
racks,

the

Social

Predestination

bottle could be placed on one of fifteen
each rack, though you couldn't see it, was

BRAVE NEW WORLD
a conveyor travelling at the rate of thirty- three and a
third centimetres an hour. Two hundred and sixty-

seven days at eight metres a day. Two thousand one

hundred and thirty-six metres in all. One circuit
of the cellar at ground level, one on the first gallery,
half on the second, and on the two hundred and
sixty-seventh morning, daylight in the Decanting

Room. Independent existence

—so called.

"But in the interval," Mr. Foster concluded,
"we've managed to do a lot to them. Oh, a very
great deal." His laugh was knowing and triumphant.
"That's the spirit I like," said the Director once
more. "Let's walk round. You tell them everything,

Mr. Foster."
Mr. Foster duly told them.
Told them of the growing embryo on its bed of
peritoneum. Made them taste the rich blood surrogate on which it fed. Explained why it had to be
stimulated with placentin and thyroxin. Told them

of the corpus luteum extract.

Showed them the jets

through which at every twelfth metre from zero to
2040 it was automatically injected. Spoke of those
gradually increasing doses of pituitary administered during the final ninety-six metres of their
course. Described the artificial maternal circulation
installed on every bottle at Metre 112; showed them
the

reservoir

of blood-surrogate,

the

centrifugal

pump that kept the liquid moving over the placenta
and drove it through the synthetic lung and waste-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
product filter. Referred to the embryo's troublesome

tendency to anaemia, to the massive doses of hog's
stomach extract and foetal foal's liver with which,
in consequence, it had to be supplied.
Showed them the simple mechanism by means
of which, during the last two metres out of every
eight, all the

embryos were simultaneously shaken

into familiarity with movement. Hinted at the gravity

of the so-called "trauma of decanting," and

enumerated the precautions taken to minimize, by a
suitable training of the bottled embryo, that danger-

ous shock. Told them of the tests for sex carried out
in the neighbourhood of metre 200.

system of labelling

Explained the

—a T for the males, a

circle for

the females and for those who were destined to be-

come freemartins a question mark, black on a white
ground.

"For of course," said Mr. Foster, "in the vast
majority of cases, fertility is merely a nuisance.
One fertile ovary in twelve hundied that would
really be quite sufficient for our purposes. But we
want to have a good choice. And of course one must
always leave an enormous margin of safety. So we

—

allow as many as thirty per cent, of the female embryos to develop normally. The others get a dose of

male sex-hormone every twenty-four metres for the
rest

of the course. Result: they're decanted as free-

martins

—structurally quite normal (except," he had

to admit, "that they do have just the slightest tend-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
ency to grow beards), but sterile. Guaranteed sterile. Which brings us at last," continued Mr. Foster,
"out of the realm of mere slavish imitation of nature
into the much more interesting world of human
invention."

He rubbed his hands. For of course, they didn't
content themselves with merely hatching out embryos: any cow could do that.

"We also predestine and condition. We decant
our babies as socialized human beings, as Alphas
or Epsilons, as future sewage workers or future ..."
He was going to say "future World controllers,"
but correcting himself, said "future Directors of
Hatcheries," instead.

The D.H.C. acknowledged the compliment with
a smile.

They were passing Metre 320 on rack

11.

A

young Beta-Minus mechanic was busy with screwdriver and spanner on the blood-surrogate pump
of a passing bottle. The hum of the electric motor
deepened by fractions of a tone as he turned the nuts.

Down, down ... A final twist, a glance at the revolution counter, and he was done. He moved two paces
down the line and began the same process on the
next pump.
"Reducing the number of revolutions per minute," Mr. Foster explained. "The surrogate goes
round slower; therefore passes through the lung at
longer intervals; therefore gives the

embryo

less

BRAVE NEW WORLD
oxygen. Nothing like oxygen-shortage for keeping an

embryo below, par." Again he rubbed his hands.
"But why do you want to keep the embryo below
par?" asked an ingenuous student.
"Ass!" said the Director, breaking a long silence.

"Hasn't it occurred to you that an Epsilon embryo
must have an Epsilon environment as well as an
Epsilon heredity?"
It

evidently hadn't occurred to him.

He was

covered with confusion.

"The lower

the caste,"

shorter the oxygen."

said

Mr.

Foster,

"the

The first organ affected was

At seventy per
cent, of normal oxygen you got dwarfs. At less than
the brain. After that the skeleton.

seventy eyeless monsters.

"Who are no use at all," concluded Mr. Foster.
Whereas

(his

voice

became

confidential

and

eager), if they could discover a technique for shorten-

ing the period of maturation what a triumph, what

a benefaction to Society!
"Consider the horse."
They considered it.
Mature at six; the elephant at ten. While at thirteen a man is not yet sexually mature; and is only

full-grown at twenty. Hence, of course, that fruit of

delayed development, the human intelligence.

"But in Epsilons," said Mr. Foster very justly,
"we don't need human intelligence."
Didn't need and didn't get it. But though the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Epsilon mind was mature at ten, the Epsilon body

was not fit to work till eighteen. Long years of superand wasted immaturity. If the physical development could be speeded up till it was as quick,
say, as a cow's, what an enormous saving to the
Community!
"Enormous!" murmured the students. Mr. Foster's enthusiasm was infectious.
He became rather technical; spoke of the abnormal endocrine co-ordination which made men
grow so slowly; postulated a germinal mutation to
account for it. Could the effects of this germinal
mutation be undone? Could the individual Epsilon
embryo be made a revert, by a suitable technique,
to the normality of dogs and cows? That was the
problem. And it was all but solved.
Pilkington, at Mombasa, had produced individuals who were sexually mature at four and fullgrown at six and a half. A scientific triumph. But
socially useless. Six-year-old men and women were
too stupid to do even Epsilon work. And the process
was an all-or-nothing one; either you failed to
modify at all, or else you modified the whole way.
They were still trying to find the ideal compromise
between adults of twenty and adults of six. So far
without success. Mr. Foster sighed and shook his
fluous

head.

Their wanderings through the crimson twilight

had brought them to the neighbourhood of Metre

BRAVE NEW WORLD
170 on Rack 9. From this point onwards Rack 9 was
enclosed and the bottles performed the remainder
of their journey in a kind of tunnel, interrupted here

and there by openings two or three metres wide.
"Heat conditioning," said Mr. Foster.

Hot tunnels alternated with cool tunnels. Coolness was wedded to discomfort in the form of hard
X-rays. By the time they were decanted the embryos had a horror of cold. They were predestined
to emigrate to the tropics, to be miners and acetate
silk spinners and steel workers. Later on their minds
would be made to endorse the judgment of their
bodies. "We condition them to thrive on heat," concluded Mr. Foster. "Our colleagues upstairs will
teach them to love it."

"And that," put in the Director sententiously,

—

"that is the secret of happiness and virtue liking
what you've got to do. All conditioning aims at that:
making people like their unescapable social destiny."
In a gap between two tunnels, a nurse was delicately probing with a long fine syringe into the

gelatinous contents of a passing bottle. The students

and their guides stood watching her for a few moments in silence.
"Well, Lenina," said Mr. Foster, when at last she
withdrew the syringe and straightened herself up.

The girl turned with a start. One could see that,
for all the lupus

commonly pretty.

and the purple eyes, she was un-

BRAVE NEW WORLD

—a row

"Henry!" Her smile flashed redly at him
of coral teeth.

"Charming, charming," murmured the Director
and, giving her two or three little pats, received in
exchange a rather deferential smile for himself.
"What are you giving them?" asked Mr. Foster,
making his tone very professional.
"Oh, the usual typhoid and sleeping sickness."
"Tropical workers start being inoculated at Metre
150," Mr. Foster explained to the students. "The
embryos still have gills. We immunize the fish
against the future man's diseases." Then, turning
back to Lenina, "Ten to five on the roof this afternoon," he said, "as usual."

"Charming," said the Director once more, and,
with a final pat, moved away after the others.
On Rack 10 rows of next generation's chemical
workers were being trained in the toleration of lead,
caustic soda, tar, chlorine. The first of a batch of two

hundred and fifty embryonic rocket-plane engineers
was just passing the eleven hundred metre mark on
Rack 3. A special mechanism kept their containers
in constant rotation. "To improve their sense of
balance," Mr. Foster explained. "Doing repairs on
the outside of a rocket in mid-air is a ticklish job.

We slacken off the circulation when they're right way
up, so that they're half starved, and double the flow
of surrogate when they're upside down. They learn
to associate topsy-turvydom with well-being; in fact,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
they're only truly happy when they're standing on
their heads.

"And now," Mr. Foster went on, "I'd like to show
you some very interesting conditioning for Alpha
Plus Intellectuals. We have a big batch of them
on Rack 5. First Gallery level," he called to two
boys who had started to go down to the ground floor.
"They're round about Metre 900," he explained.
"You can't really do any useful intellectual conditioning till the foetuses have lost their tails. Follow
me.
But the Director had looked at his watch. "Ten
to three," he said. "No time for the intellectual embryos, I'm afraid. We must go up to the Nurseries
before the children have finished their afternoon
sleep."

Mr. Foster was disappointed. "At least one glance
at the Decanting Room," he pleaded.

"Very well then." The Director smiled indulgently. "Just one glance."

rv^^^oo
-V.

CHAPTER TWO
Mr. Foster was left in the Decanting Room. The
D.H.C. and his students stepped into the nearest
and were carried up to the fifth floor.
Infant Nurseries. Neo-Pavlovian Conditioning Rooms, announced the notice board.
The Director opened a door. They were in a large
bare room, very bright and sunny; for the whole of
the southern wall was a single window. Haifa dozen
nurses, trousered and jacketed in the regulation
lift

white viscose-linen uniform, their hair aseptically
hidden under white caps, were engaged in setting
out bowls of roses in a long row across the floor. Big
bowls, packed

tight with

blossom. Thousands of

petals, ripe-blown and silkily smooth, like the cheeks

of innumerable little cherubs, but of cherubs, in that
bright light, not exclusively pink and Aryan, but also

luminously Chinese, also Mexican, also apoplectic

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
with too

much blowing of celestial trumpets, also

pale as death,, pale with the posthumous whiteness

of marble.

The nurses stiffened to attention as the D.H.G.
came in.
"Set out the books," he said curtly.

In silence the nurses obeyed his

command. Be-

tween the rose bowls the books were duly set out
a row of nursery quartos opened invitingly each at

some gaily coloured image of beast or fish or bird.

"Now bring in the children."
They hurried out of the room and returned in a
minute or two, each pushing a kind of tall dumbwaiter laden, on all its four wire-netted shelves, with
eight-month-old babies, all exactly alike (a Bokanovsky Group, it was evident) and all (since their caste
was Delta) dressed in khaki.
"Put them down on the floor."
The infants were unloaded.
"Now turn them so that they can see the flowers
and books."
Turned, the babies at once fell silent, then began
to crawl towards those clusters of sleek colours, those
shapes so gay and brilliant on the white pages. As
they approached, the sun came out of a momentary
eclipse behind a cloud. The roses flamed up as
though with a sudden passion from within; a new
and profound significance seemed to suffuse the
shining pages of the books.

From the ranks of the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
crawling babies

came little squeals of excitement,

gurgles and twitterings of pleasure.

The Director rubbed his hands. "Excellent!" he
said. "It might almost have been done on purpose."

The swiftest crawlers were already at their goal.
Small

hands reached out uncertainly,

touched,

grasped, unpetaling the transfigured roses, crumpling
the illuminated pages of the books.

The Director

waited until all were happily busy. Then, "Watch
carefully,"

he said. And, lifting his hand, he gave

the signal.

The Head Nurse, who was standing by a switchboard at the other end of the room, pressed down
a little lever.

There was a violent explosion. Shriller and ever
a siren shrieked. Alarm bells maddeningly

shriller,

sounded.

The children started, screamed; their faces were
distorted with terror.

"And now," the Director shouted (for the noise
was deafening), "now we proceed to rub in the
lesson with a mild electric shock."

He waved his hand again, and the Head Nurse
pressed a second lever. The screaming of the babies

suddenly changed its tone. There was something
desperate, almost insane, about the sharp spasmodic
yelps to which they now gave utterance. Their little

bodies twitched and stiffened; their limbs
jerkily as if to the tug of unseen wires.

moved

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"We can

electrify

that whole

strip

of floor,"

bawled the Director in explanation. "But that's
enough," he signalled to the nurse.
The explosions ceased, the bells stopped ringing,
the shriek of the siren died down from tone to tone
into silence.

The stiffly twitching bodies relaxed,

and what had become the sob and yelp of infant
maniacs broadened out once more into a normal
howl of ordinary terror.
"Offer them the flowers and the books again."
The nurses obeyed; but at the approach of the
roses, at the mere sight of those gaily-coloured
images of pussy and cock-a-doodle-doo and baabaa black sheep, the infants shrank away in horror;
the volume of their howling suddenly increased.
"Observe," said the Director triumphantly, "observe."

Books and loud noises, flowers and electric shocks

—already in the infant mind these couples were
compromisingly linked; and after two hundred repetitions of the same or a similar lesson would be
wedded indissolubly. What man has joined, nature is

powerless to put asunder.
"They'll grow

an

up with what the

psychologists

hatred of books and

used to

call

flowers.

Reflexes unalterably conditioned. They'll

'instinctive'

be safe from books and botany all their lives." The
Director turned to his nurses.

again."

"Take them away

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Still yelling,

the khaki babies were loaded on to

their dumb-waiters and wheeled out, leaving behind

them the smell of sour milk and a most welcome
silence.

One of the students held up his hand; and though
he could see quite well why you couldn't have lowercaste people wasting the

Community's time over

books, and that there was always the risk of their
reading something which might undesirably de-

condition one of their reflexes, yet

.

.

.

well,

he

couldn't understand about the flowers. Why go to

the trouble of making it psychologically impossible
for Deltas to like flowers?

Patiently the D.H.C. explained. If the children
were made to scream at the sight of a rose, that was
on grounds of high economic policy. Not so very long
ago (a century or thereabouts), Gammas, Deltas,
even Epsilons, had been conditioned to like flowers

—flowers in particular and wild nature in general.
The idea was to make them want to be going out
into the country at every available opportunity, and

so compel them to consume transport.

"And didn't they consume transport?" asked the
student.

"Quite a lot," the D.H.C. replied. "But nothing
else."

Primroses and landscapes, he pointed out, have

one grave

defect:

they are gratuitous.

nature keeps no factories busy.

It

A love of

was decided to

BRA VE NEW WORLD
abolish the love of nature, at any rate

among the

lower classes; to abolish the love of nature, but not
the tendency to consume transport. For of course it

was essential that they should keep on going to the
country, even though they hated it. The problem
was to find an economically sounder reason for consuming transport than a mere affection for primroses and landscapes. It was duly found.

"We condition the masses to hate the country,"
concluded the Director. "But simultaneously we
condition them to love all country sports. At the
same time, we see to it that all country sports shall
entail the use of elaborate apparatus. So that they
consume manufactured articles as well as transport.
Hence those electric shocks."
"I see," said the student, and was silent, lost in

admiration.

There was a

silence;

then, clearing his throat,

"Once upon a time," the Director began, "while
our Ford was still on earth, there was a little boy
called Reuben Rabinovitch. Reuben was the child of
Polish-speaking parents." The Director interrupted
himself.

"You know what Polish is, I suppose?"

"A dead language."
"Like French and German," added another student, officiously showing off his learning.

"And 'parent'?" questioned the D.H.C.
There was an uneasy silence. Several of the boys
They had not yet learned to draw the

blushed.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
but often very fine distinction between
smut and pure science. One, at last, had the courage
significant

to raise a hand.

"Human beings used to be

.

.

." he hesitated; the

blood rushed to his cheeks. "Well, they used to be
viviparous."

"Quite right." The Director nodded approvingly.
"And when the babies were decanted ..."
" 'Born'," came the correction.
"Well, then they were the parents

— mean, not
I

The poor
boy was overwhelmed with confusion.
"In brief," the Director summed up, "the parents
were the father and the mother." The smut that
was really science fell with a crash into the boys'
eye-avoiding silence. "Mother," he repeated loudly
rubbing in the science; and, leaning back in his
chair, "These," he said gravely, "are unpleasant
facts; I know it. But then most historical facts are
the babies, of course; the other ones."

unpleasant."

He returned to Little Reuben —to Little Reuben,
in

whose room, one evening, by an oversight, his
and mother (crash, crash!) happened to

father

leave the radio turned on.

("For you must remember that in those days of
gross viviparous reproduction, children were always

brought up by their parents and not in State Conditioning Centres.")

While the child was

asleep,

a broadcast pro-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
gramme from London suddenly started to come
through; and the next morning, to the astonishment of his crash and crash (the more daring of
the boys ventured to grin at one another), Little

Reuben woke up repeating word for word a long
lecture by that curious old writer ("one of the very
few whose works have been permitted to come
down to us"), George Bernard Shaw, who was speaking, according to a well-authenticated tradition,
about his own genius. To Little Reuben's wink and
snigger, this lecture was, of course, perfectly incomprehensible and, imagining that their child had
suddenly gone mad, they sent for a doctor. He, fortunately, understood English, recognized the discourse as that which Shaw had broadcasted the

previous evening, realized the significance of what

had happened, and sent a letter to the medical press
about it.

"The principle of sleep-teaching, or hypnopaedia,
had been discovered." The D.H.C. made an impressive pause.

The principle had been discovered; but many,

many years were to elapse before that principle
was usefully applied.
"The case of Little Reuben occurred only twentythree years after Our Ford's first T-Model was put

on the market." (Here the Director made a sign
of the T on his stomach and all the students reverently followed suit.)

"And yet

.

.

."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
first used

students

the

Furiously

in

officially

reasons, (a)

scribbled.

A.F. 214.

"Hypnopadia,

Why not before? Two

."
.

.

"These early experimenters," the D.H.C. was
saying, "were on the wrong track. They thought
that hypnopaedia could be made an instrument of
intellectual education

.

.

."

(A small boy asleep on his right side, the right

arm stuck out, the right hand hanging limp over
the edge of the bed. Through a round grating in
the side of a box a voice speaks softly.

"The Nile is the longest river in Africa and the
second in length of all the rivers of the globe. Although falling short of the length of the MississippiMissouri, the Nile is at the head of all rivers as re-

gards the length of its basin, which extends through
."

35 degrees of latitude
At breakfast the next morning, "Tommy," some
.

.

one says, "do you know which is the longest river
in Africa?" A shaking of the head. "But don't you
remember something that begins: The Nile is
the

.

."

.

"The - Nile - is - the - longest -river -in -Africa -and the - second - in - length - of- all - the - rivers - of- the -

globe

.

.

."

The words come rushing out. "Although-

falling-short-of

."
.

.

"Well now, which is the longest river in Africa?"
The eyes are blank. "I don't know."

"But the Nile, Tommy."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"The- Nile- is- the- longest- river- in- Africa- andsecond

.

.

."

"Then which river is the longest, Tommy?"

Tommy bursts into tears. "I don't know," he
howls.)

That howl, the Director made it plain, discouraged the earliest investigators. The experiments were
abandoned. No further attempt was made to teach
children the length of the Nile in their sleep. Quite
rightly. You can't learn a science unless you know

what it's all about.
"Whereas, if they'd only started on moral education," said the Director, leading the way towards
the door. The students followed him, desperately
scribbling as they walked and all the way up in the
lift. "Moral education, which ought never, in any
circumstances, to be rational."
"Silence, silence," whispered a loud speaker as
they

stepped

out

at

the

fourteenth

floor,

and

"Silence, silence," the trumpet mouths indefatigably

repeated at intervals

down

every corridor.

The

and even the Director himself rose automatically to the tips of their toes. They were Alphas,

students

of course; but even Alphas have been well conditioned.

"Silence,

silence."

All

the

air

of the

fourteenth floor was sibilant with the categorical
imperative.
Fifty yards of tiptoeing

brought them to a door

which the Director cautiously opened. They stepped

BRAVE NEW WORLD
over the threshold into the twilight of a shuttered
dormitory. Eighty cots stood in a row against the

There was a sound of light regular breathing

wall.

and a continuous murmur, as of very faint voices
remotely whispering.
A nurse rose as they entered and came to attention before the Director.

"What's the lesson this afternoon?" he asked.

"We had Elementary Sex for the first forty minutes," she answered. "But now it's switched over to

Elementary Class Consciousness."
The Director walked slowly down the long line of

Rosy and relaxed with sleep, eighty little boys
and girls lay softly breathing. There was a whisper
under every pillow. The D.H.C. halted and, bending
cots.

over one of the little beds, listened attentively.

"Elementary Class Consciousness, did you say?
have it repeated a little louder by the trum-

Let's

pet."

At the end of the room a loud speaker projected
from the wall. The Director walked up to it and
pressed a switch.
".

.

.

all wear green,"

said a soft but very distinct

voice, beginning in the middle of a sentence,

"and

Delta Children wear khaki.

Oh no, I don't want

to play with Delta children.

And Epsilons are still

worse. They're too stupid to be able to read or
write.

Besides they

wear black, which

beastly colour. I'm so glad I'm a Beta."

is

such a

BRA VE NEW WORLD
There was a pause; then the voice began again.
'Alpha children wear grey. They work much
*

harder than we do, because they're so frightfully
I'm really awfully glad I'm a Beta, because

clever.

I don't work so hard. And then we are much better
than the Gammas and Deltas. Gammas are stupid.
They all wear green, and Delta children wear khaki.
Oh no, I don't want to play with Delta children. And
Epsilons are still worse. They're too stupid to be

able

.

.

."

The Director pushed back the switch. The voice
was silent. Only its thin ghost continued to mutter
from beneath the eighty pillows.
"They'll have that repeated forty or fifty times
more before they wake; then again on Thursday,
and again on Saturday. A hundred and twenty
times three times a week for thirty months. After
which they go on to a more advanced lesson."
Roses and electric shocks, the khaki of Deltas and
a whiff of asafcetida

—wedded indissolubly before the

child can speak. But wordless conditioning is crude

and wholesale; cannot bring home the finer distinctions, cannot inculcate the more complex courses of
behaviour. For that there must be words, but words
without reason. In brief, hypnopaedia.
"The greatest moralizing and socializing force of
all time."
The students took it down in their litde books.
Straight from the horse's mouth.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Once more the Director touched the switch.
".

.

.

so frightfully clever," the soft, insinuating,

indefatigable voice was saying.

"I'm really awfully

glad I'm a Beta, because ..."

Not so much like drops of water, though water, it
is true, can wear holes in the hardest granite; rather,

drops of liquid sealing-wax, drops that adhere, incrust, incorporate themselves with what they fall on,
till

finally the rock is all one scarlet blob.

"Till at last the child's mind is these suggestions,

and the sum of the suggestions is the child's mind.
And not the child's mind only. The adult's mind
too all his life long. The mind that judges and demade up of these suggestions.
sires and decides
are our suggestions!" The
suggestions
But all these

—

—

Director almost shouted in his triumph. "Suggestions from the State." He banged the nearest table.

"It therefore follows

.

.

."

A noise made him turn round.
"Oh, Ford!" he said in another tone, "I've gone
and woken the children."

fY^^Yl
TV.

CHAPTER THREE
Outside, in the garden, it was playtime. Naked in
the warm June sunshine, six or seven hundred little
boys and girls were running with shrill yells over the
lawns, or playing ball games, or squatting silently in
twos and threes among the flowering shrubs. The
roses were in bloom, two nightingales soliloquized in

the boskage, a cuckoo was just going out of tune
among the lime trees. The air was drowsy with the

murmur of bees and helicopters.
The Director and his students stood for a short
time watching a game of Centrifugal Bumblepuppy. Twenty children were grouped in a circle
round a chrome steel tower. A ball thrown up so as
to land on the platform at the top of the tower rolled

down into the interior, fell on a rapidly revolving
disk, was hurled through one or other of the numer-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
ous apertures pierced in the cylindrical casing, and
had to be caught.
"Strange," mused the Director, as they turned

away, "strange to think that even in Our Ford's
day most games were played without more apparatus than a ball or two and a few sticks and perhaps
a bit of netting. Imagine the folly of allowing people
to play elaborate games which do nothing whatever
to increase consumption. It's madness. Nowadays
the Controllers won't approve of any new game unless it can be shown that it requires at least as

apparatus

as

the

most

complicated

much

of existing

games." He interrupted himself.
"That's a charming little group," he said, pointing.
In a little grassy bay between tall clumps of Mediterranean heather, two children, a little boy of about
seven and a little girl who might have been a year
older,

were playing, very gravely and with all the

focussed attention of scientists intent on a labour of
discovery, a rudimentary sexual game.

"Charming, charming!" the D.H.C. repeated
sentimentally.

"Charming," the boys politely agreed. But their
smile was rather patronizing. They had put aside
similar childish amusements too recently to be able
to watch them now without a touch of contempt.
Charming? but it was just a pair of kids fooling
about; that was all. Just kids.
"I always think," the Director was continuing in

BRAVE NEW WORLD
the same rather maudlin tone, when he was interrupted by a loud boo-hooing.
From a neighbouring shrubbery emerged a nurse,

leading by the hand a small boy, who howled as he

went.

An anxious-looking little girl trotted at her

heels.

"What's the matter?" asked the Director.
The nurse shrugged her shoulders. "Nothing
much," she answered. "It's just that this little boy
seems rather reluctant to join in the ordinary erotic
play. I'd noticed it once or twice before. And now
again to-day. He started yelling just now

.

.

."

"Honestly," put in the anxious-looking little girl,
"I didn't mean to hurt him or anything. Honestly."

"Of course you didn't, dear," said the nurse reassuringly. "And so," she went on, turning back to
the Director, "I'm taking him in to see the Assistant

Superintendent of Psychology. Just to see

if

any-

thing's at all abnormal."

"Quite right," said the Director. "Take him in.

You stay here, little girl," he added, as the nurse
moved away with her still howling charge. "What's
your name?"
"Polly Trotsky."

"And a very good name too," said the Director.
"Run away now and see if you can find some other
boy to play with."
The child scampered off into the bushes and was

little

lost to sight.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Exquisite

little

creature!"

said

the

Director,

looking after her. Then, turning to his students,

"What I'm going to tell you now," he said, "may
sound incredible. But then, when you're not accustomed to history, most facts about the past do sound
incredible."

He let out the amazing truth. For a very long
period before the time of Our Ford, and even for

some generations afterwards, erotic play between
children had been regarded as abnormal (there was
a roar of laughter); and not only abnormal, actually
immoral (no!): and had therefore been rigorously
suppressed.

A look of astonished incredulity appeared on the
faces of his listeners.
to

Poor little kids not allowed

amuse themselves?

They could not

believe

it.

"Even

adolescents,"

the

D.H.G.

was saying,

"even adolescents like yourselves ..."

"Not possible!"
"Barring a

little

surreptitious auto-erotism

and

homosexuality — absolutely nothing."
"Nothing?"

"In most cases, till they were over twenty years
old."

"Twenty years old?" echoed

the students in a

chorus of loud disbelief.
"Twenty," the Director repeated. "I told you
that you'd find it incredible."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But what happened?" they asked. "What were
the results?"

"The results were terrible." A deep resonant voice
broke startlingly into the dialogue.
They looked round. On the fringe of the little

—

group stood a stranger a man of middle height,
black-haired, with a hooked nose, full red lips, eyes
very piercing and dark. "Terrible," he repeated.
The D.H.G. had at that moment sat down on one
of the steel and rubber benches conveniently scattered through the gardens; but at the sight of the
stranger, he sprang to his feet and darted forward,
his hands outstretched, smiling with all his teeth,
effusive.

"Controller! What an unexpected pleasure! Boys,
what are you thinking of? This is the Controller;
this is his fordship, Mustapha Mond."

In the four thousand rooms of the Centre the four

thousand electric clocks simultaneously struck four.
Discarnate voices called from the trumpet mouths.
"Main Day-shift off duty. Second Day-shift take
over. Main Day-shift off . . ."

In the lift, on their way up to the changing rooms,
Henry Foster and the Assistant Director of Predestination rather pointedly turned their backs on
Bernard Marx from the Psychology Bureau averted
:

themselves from that unsavoury reputation.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
The faint hum and rattle of machinery still srirred
the crimson air in the Embryo Store. Shifts might
come and go, one lupus-coloured face give place to
another; majestically and for ever the conveyors
crept forward with their load of future

men and

women.
Lenina Crowne walked briskly towards the door.

His fordship Mustapha Mond! The eyes of the
saluting students almost popped out of their heads.
Mustapha Mond The Resident Controller for West!

One of the Ten World Controllers.
and he sat down on the bench
One of the Ten

ern Europe!

.

.

.

with the D.H.C., he was going to stay, to stay, yes,
straight from the
and actually talk to them
from
the
mouth of Ford
horse's mouth. Straight
.

.

.

himself.

Two

shrimp-brown children emerged from a

neighbouring shrubbery, stared at them for a moment with large, astonished eyes, then returned to
their amusements among the leaves.

"You all remember," said the Controller, in his
all remember, I suppose,
and inspired saying of Our Ford's:

strong deep voice, "you
that beautiful

History is bunk. History," he repeated slowly, "is

bunk."

He waved his hand; and it was as though, with an
invisible feather whisk, he had brushed away a little

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
and the dust was Harappa, was Ur of the
Chaldees; some spider-webs, and they were Thebes
and Babylon and Cnossos and Mycenae. Whisk,
Whisk and where was Odysseus, where was Job,
where were Jupiter and Gotama and Jesus? Whisk
and those specks of antique dirt called Athens and
Rome, Jerusalem and the Middle Kingdom all
were gone. Whisk the place where Italy had been
was empty. Whisk, the cathedrals; whisk, whisk,
King Lear and the Thoughts of Pascal. Whisk,
Passion;
whisk,
Requiem; whisk, Symphony;
dust,

—

—

—

whisk

.

.

.

"Going to the Feelies this evening, Henry?" enquired

the

Assistant

Predestinator.

"I

hear the

new one at the Alhambra is first-rate. There's a love
scene on a bearskin rug; they say it's marvellous.

Every hair of the bear reproduced. The most amazing tactual effects."

"That's why you're taught no history," the Controller was saying. "But now the time has come . . ."

The D.H.C. looked at him nervously. There were
those strange rumours of old forbidden books hidden
in a safe in the Controller's study. Bibles, poetry

Ford knew what.

Mustapha Mond intercepted his anxious glance

BRAVE NEW WORLD
and the corners of his red lips twitched ironically.
"It's all right, Director," he said in a tone of faint

derision, "I won't corrupt them."

The D.H.C. was overwhelmed with confusion.

Those who feel themselves despised do well to
look despising. The smile on Bernard Marx's face
was contemptuous. Every hair on the bear indeed!
"I shall

make a point of going,"

said

Henry

Foster.

Mustapha Mond leaned forward, shook a finger at
them. "Just try to realize it," he said, and his voice
sent a strange thrill quivering along their diaphragms. "Try to realize what it was like to have a
viviparous mother."
That smutty word again. But none of them

dreamed, this time, of smiling.
"Try to imagine what 'living with one's family'
meant."

They tried; but obviously without the smallest
success.

"And do you know what a 'home' was?"
They shook their heads
From her dim crimson cellar Lenina Crowne shot
up seventeen

stories,

turned to the right as she

BRA VE NEW WORLD
stepped out of the lift, walked down a long corridor
and, opening the door marked Girls' Dressing-

Room, plunged into a deafening chaos of arms and
bosoms and underclothing. Torrents of hot water
were splashing into or gurgling out of a hundred
baths. Rumbling and hissing, eighty vibro-vacuum
massage machines were simultaneously kneading and
sucking the firm and sunburnt flesh of eighty superb
female specimens. Every one was talking at the top
of her voice. A Synthetic Music machine was warbling out a super-cornet solo.

"Hullo, Fanny," said Lenina to the young woman

who had the pegs and locker next to hers.
Fanny worked in the Bottling Room, and her surname was also Crowne. But as the two thousand
million inhabitants of the planet had only ten thou-

sand names between them, the coincidence was not
particularly surprising.

—

Lenina pulled at her zippers downwards on the
downwards with a double-handed gesture
at the two that held trousers, downwards again to
loosen her undergarment. Still wearing her shoes
and stockings, she walked off towards the bath-

jacket,

rooms.

Home, home

—a few small rooms,

stiflingly over-

inhabited by a man, by a periodically teeming

woman, by a rabble of boys and girls of all ages. No

BRAVE NEW WORLD
air,

no space; an understerilized prison; darkness,

disease, and smells.

(The Controller's evocation was so vivid that one
of the boys, more sensitive than the rest, turned pale
at the

mere description and was on the point of

being sick.)

Lenina got out of the bath, towelled herself dry,
took hold of a long flexible tube plugged into the
wall, presented the nozzle to her breast, as though
she meant to
trigger.

commit

suicide,

pressed

down the

A blast of warmed air dusted her with the

talcum powder. Eight different scents and
eau-de-Cologne were laid on in little taps over the
wash-basin. She turned on the third from the left,
dabbed herself with chypre and, carrying her shoes
and stockings in her hand, went out to see if one of
the vibro-vacuum machines were free.
finest

And home was as squalid psychically as physically.
Psychically, it was a rabbit hole, a midden, hot with

the frictions of tightly packed life, reeking with emotion.

What suffocating intimacies, what dangerous,

insane, obscene relationships between the members

of the family group! Maniacally, the mother brooded

over her children

{her children)

them like a cat over

its

.

.

.

brooded over

kittens; but a cat that could

BRAVE NEW WORLD
talk,

"My baby, my baby,"
"My baby, and oh, oh, at

a cat that could say,

over and over again.

my breast, the little hands, the hunger, and that
unspeakable agonizing pleasure! Till at last my
baby sleeps, my baby sleeps with a bubble of white
milk at the corner of his mouth.
sleeps

.

.

My litde baby

."

"Yes," said Mustapha Mond, nodding his head,
"you may well shudder."

"Who are you going out with to-night?" Lenina
asked, returning from the vibro-vac like a pearl

illuminated from within, pinkly glowing.

"Nobody."
Lenina raised her eyebrows in astonishment.
"I've been feeling rather out of sorts lately,"
Fanny explained. "Dr. Wells advised me to have
a Pregnancy Substitute."
"But,

my dear, you're only nineteen. The first

Pregnancy Substitute isn't compulsory till twentyone.

"I know, dear. But some people are better if they

begin earlier. Dr. Wells told me that brunettes with

wide pelvises, like me, ought to have their first
Pregnancy Substitute at seventeen. So I'm really
two years late, not two years early." She opened the
door of her locker and pointed to the row of boxes
and labelled phials on the upper shelf.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Syrup of Corpus Luteum," Lenina read the
names aloud. "Ovarin, guaranteed fresh: not
to be used after august 1st, a.f. 632. mammary
Gland Extract: to be taken Three Times
Daily, Before Meals, with a Little Water.
Placentin: 5CC to be Injected Intra venally
Ugh!" Lenina shuddered.
every Third Day
.

.

.

"How I loathe intravenals, don't you?"
"Yes. But when they do one good

.

.

."

Fanny

was a particularly sensible girl.

—or Our Freud, for some inscrutable
himself whenever he spoke
reason, he chose to
—
of psychological matters Our Freud had been the
to reveal the appalling dangers of family
of fathers —was therefore
The world was
of mothers — therefore of every
of misery;
of
sadism to chastity;
from
perversion
kind of
of madness and
uncles, aunts —
brothers,
Our Ford

as,

call

first

full

life.

full

full

full

full

sisters,

suicide.

"And yet, among the savages of Samoa, in certain
islands off the coast of

New Guinea

."
.

.

The tropical sunshine lay like warm honey on the
naked bodies of children tumbling promiscuously
among the hibiscus blossoms. Home was in any one
of twenty palm-thatched houses. In the Trobriands
conception was the work of ancestral ghosts; nobody

had ever heard of a father.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Extremes," said the Controller, "meet. For the

good reason that they were made to meet."

"Dr. Wells says that a three months' Pregnancy
Substitute now will

make all the difference to my

health for the next three or four years."

"Well, I hope he's right," said Lenina. "But,

Fanny, do you really mean to say that for the next
three months you're not supposed to

.

.

."

"Oh no, dear. Only for a week or two, that's all.
I shall spend the evening at the Club playing Musical

Bridge. I suppose you're going out?"

Lenina nodded.

"Who with?"
"Henry Foster."
"Again?" Fanny's kind, rather moon-like face
took on an incongruous expression of pained and
disapproving astonishment. "Do you mean to tell

me you're still going out with Henry Foster?"

Mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters. But
there were also husbands, wives, lovers. There were
also monogamy and romance.
"Though you probably don't know what those
are," said Mustapha Mond.

They shook their heads.
Family, monogamy, romance. Everywhere

ex-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
everywhere a focussing of interest, a
narrow channelling of impulse and energy.
"But every one belongs to every one else," he
concluded, citing the hypnopaedic proverb.
The students nodded, emphatically agreeing with
a statement which upwards of sixty-two thousand
repetitions in the dark had made them accept, not
merely as true, but as axiomatic, self-evident,
clusiveness,

utterly indisputable.

"But after all," Lenina was protesting, "it's only
about four months now since I've been having
Henry."
"Only four months! I like that. And what's more,"
Fanny went on, pointing an accusing finger,
"there's been nobody else except Henry all that
time. Has there?"

Lenina blushed scarlet; but her eyes, the tone of
her voice remained defiant. "No, there hasn't been
any one else," she answered almost truculently.

"And I jolly well don't see why there should have
been."

"Oh, she jolly well doesn't see why there should
have been," Fanny repeated, as though to an invisible listener behind Lenina's

left

shoulder. Then,

with a sudden change of tone, "But seriously," she
said, "I really do think you ought to be careful. It's

such horribly bad form to go on and on like this with

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
one man. At forty, or thirty-five, it wouldn't be so
bad. But zXyour age, Lenina! No, it really won't do.
And you know how strongly the D.H.C. objects to
anything intense or long-drawn. Four months of
Henry Foster, without having another man why,
."
he'd be furious if he knew

—

.

.

"Think of water under pressure in a pipe." They
thought of it. "I pierce it once," said the Controller.
"What a jet!"
He pierced it twenty times. There were twenty
piddling little fountains.

"My baby. My baby

.

.

.!"

"Mother!" The madness is infectious.

"My love, my one and
cious

.

.

only,

precious,

pre-

."

Mother, monogamy, romance. High spurts the
fountain; fierce and foamy the wild jet. The urge
has but a single outiet. My love, my baby. No wonder those poor pre-moderns were mad and wicked
and miserable. Their world didn't allow them to take
things easily, didn't allow them to be sane, virtuous,
happy. What with mothers and lovers, what with
the prohibitions they were not conditioned to obey,
what with the temptations and the lonely remorses,
what with all the diseases and the endless isolating
pain, what with the uncertainties and the poverty
they were forced to feel strongly. And feeling strongly

BRAVE NEW WORLD
(and strongly, what was more, in solitude, in hopelessly individual isolation) ,

how could they be stable?

"Of course there's no need to give him up. Have
somebody else from time to time, that's all. He has
other girls, doesn't he?"

Lenina admitted it.
"Of course he does. Trust Henry Foster to be the
perfect gentleman always correct. And then there's

—

the Director to think of.
ler

.

.

You know what a stick-

."

Nodding, "He patted

me on the behind this

afternoon," said Lenina.

"There, you see!" Fanny was triumphant. "That

shows what he stands for. The strictest conventionality."

"Stability,"

said the Controller,

civilization without social stability.

"stability.

No

No social stabil-

without individual stability." His voice was a
trumpet. Listening they felt larger, warmer.
The machine turns, turns and must keep on turning for ever. It is death if it stands still. A thousand
ity

—

millions scrabbled the crust of the earth. The wheels

began to turn. In a hundred and fifty years there
were two thousand millions. Stop all the wheels. In

BRA VE NEW WORLD
a hundred and fifty weeks there are once more only a

thousand millions; a thousand thousand thousand

men and women have starved to death.
Wheels must turn steadily, but cannot turn untended. There must be men to tend them, men as
steady as the wheels upon their axles, sane men,
obedient men, stable in contentment.

My baby, my mother, my only, only
love; groaning: My sin, my terrible God; screaming
Crying:

with pain, muttering with fever, bemoaning old age
and poverty how can they tend the wheels? And if

—

they cannot tend the wheels

.

.

.

The corpses of a

thousand thousand thousand men and women would
be hard to bury or burn.

"And after all," Fanny's tone was coaxing, "it's
not as though there were anything painful or disagreeable about having one or two

men besides

Henry. And seeing that you ought to be a little more
promiscuous ..."

"Stability,"

insisted

the

Controller,

"stability.

The primal and the ultimate need. Stability. Hence
all this."

With a wave of his hand he indicated the gardens,
the huge building of the Conditioning Centre, the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
naked children furtive in the undergrowth or running across the lawns.

Lenina shook her head. "Somehow," she mused,
"I hadn't been feeling very keen on promiscuity
lately. There are times when one doesn't. Haven't
you found that too, Fanny?"
Fanny nodded her sympathy and understanding.
"But one's got to make the effort," she said sententiously, "one's got to play the game. After all, every
one belongs to every one else."
"Yes, every one belongs to every one else," Lenina
repeated slowly and, sighing, was silent for a moment; then, taking Fanny's hand, gave it a little
squeeze. "You're quite right, Fanny. As usual. I'll

make the effort."

Impulse arrested spills over, and the flood is feeling, the flood is passion, the flood is even madness: it

depends on the force of the current, the height and
strength of the barrier. The unchecked stream flows
smoothly down its appointed channels into a calm
well-being. (The embryo is hungry; day in, day out,
the

blood-surrogate

pump

unceasingly

eight hundred revolutions a minute.

turns

its

The decanted

infant howls; at once a nurse appears with a bottle

BRA VE NEW WORLD
of external secretion. Feeling lurks in that interval

between desire and its consummation.
Shorten that interval, break down all those old un-

of time

necessary barriers.

"Fortunate boys!" said the Controller. "No pains
have been spared to make your lives emotionally
easy to preserve you, so far as that is possible, from
having emotions at all."

—

"Ford's in his flivver,"

murmured the D.H.C.

"All's well with the world."

"Lenina Crowne?" said Henry Foster, echoing
the Assistant Predestinator's question as he zipped

up his trousers. "Oh, she's a splendid girl. Wonderfully pneumatic. I'm surprised you haven't had
her."

"I can't think how it is I haven't," said the Assist-

ant Predestinator. "I certainly

will.

At the

first

opportunity."

From his place on the opposite side of the changingroom aisle, Bernard Marx overheard what they were
saying and turned pale.

"And to tell the truth," said Lenina, "I'm beginning to get just a tiny bit bored with nothing but
Henry every day." She pulled on her left stocking.

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Do you know Bernard Marx?" she asked in a tone
whose excessive casualness was evidently forced.

Fanny looked
say

.

.

.

startled.

"You

don't

mean

to

?"

"Why not? Bernard's an Alpha Plus. Besides, he
asked me to go to one of the Savage Reservations
with him. I've always wanted to see a Savage
Reservation."

"But his reputation?"
"What do I care about his reputation?"
"They say he doesn't like Obstacle Golf."

"They say, they say," mocked Lenina.

"And then he spends most of his time by himself
alone" There was horror in Fanny's voice.

"Well, he won't be alone when he's with me. And
anyhow, why are people so beastly to him? I think
he's rather sweet." She smiled to herself; how absurdly shy he had been! Frightened almost as
though she were a World Controller and he a
Gamma-Minus machine minder.

—

"Consider your own lives," said Mustapha Mond.
"Has any of you ever encountered an insurmountable obstacle?"

The question was answered by a negative silence.
"Has any of you been compelled to live through
a long time-interval between the consciousness of
a desire and its fulfilment?"

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Well," began one of the boys, and hesitated.

"Speak up," said the D.H.C. "Don't keep his
fordship waiting."

"I once had to wait nearly four weeks before a girl
I wanted would let

me have her."

"And you felt a strong emotion in consequence?"
"Horrible!"
"Horrible; precisely," said the Controller.
ancestors

"Our

were so stupid and short-sighted that

when the first reformers came along and offered to
deliver

them from those

horrible emotions, they

wouldn't have anything to do with them."

"Talking about her as though she were a bit of
meat." Bernard ground his teeth. "Have her here,
have her there. Like mutton. Degrading her to so
much mutton. She said she'd think it over, she said
she'd give me an answer this week. Oh, Ford, Ford,
Ford." He would have liked to go up to them and
hard, again and again.
hit them in the face

—

"Yes,

I really

do advise you to try her," Henry

Foster was saying.

"Take Ectogenesis. Pfitzner and Kawaguchi had
got the whole technique worked out. But would the

Governments look at it? No. There was something

BRAVE NEW WORLD
called Christianity.

Women were forced to go on

being viviparous."

"He's so ugly!" said Fanny.
"But I rather like his looks."
"And then so small" Fanny

made a grimace;

smallness was so horribly and typically low-caste.

"I think that's rather sweet," said Lenina. "One
feels

one would like to pet him. You know. Like a

cat."

Fanny was shocked. "They say somebody made
a mistake when he was still in the bottle thought
he was a Gamma and put alcohol into his blood-

—

surrogate. That's why he's so stunted."

"What nonsense!" Lenina was indignant.

"Sleep teaching was actually prohibited in England. There was something called liberalism. Parliament, if you know what that was, passed a law
against

it.

The

records survive.

Speeches about

liberty of the subject. Liberty to be inefficient and

miserable. Freedom to be a round peg in a square
hole."

"But,

my dear chap, you're welcome, I assure

you. You're welcome."

Henry Foster patted the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Predestinator on

"Every
one belongs to every one else, after all."
One hundred repetitions three nights a week for
four years, thought Bernard Marx, who was a specialist on hypnopaedia. Sixty- two thousand four
hundred repetitions make one truth. Idiots!
Assistant

the

shoulder.

"Or the Caste System. Constantly proposed, conThere was something called democracy. As though men were more than physicochemically equal."

stantly rejected.

"Well, all I can say is that I'm going to accept
his invitation."

Bernard hated them, hated them. But they were
two, they were large, they were strong.

"The Nine Years' War began in a.f. 141."

"Not even if it were true about the alcohol in his
blood-surrogate."

"Phosgene, chloropicrin, ethyl iodoacetate, diphenylcyanarsine, trichlormethyl, chloroformate, di-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
chlorethyl sulphide.

Not to mention hydrocyanic

acid."

"Which

I

simply don't believe," Lenina con-

cluded.

"The noise of fourteen thousand aeroplanes advancing in open order. But in the Kurfurstendamm
and the Eighth Arrondissement, the explosion of the
anthrax bombs is hardly louder than the popping of

a paper bag."

"Because I do want to see a Savage Reservation."

Ch 3 C 6 H 2 (N0 2 3 +Hg(CNO) 2 = well,
)

what?

An

hole in the ground, a pile of masonry,

enormous
some bits of flesh and mucus, a foot, with the boot
still on it, flying through the air and landing, flop,
in the middle of the geraniums

—the scarlet ones;

such a splendid show that summer!

"You're hopeless, Lenina, I give you up."

"The Russian technique for infecting water supplies was particularly ingenious."

BRAVE MEW WORLD
Back turned

to back,

Fanny and Lenina con-

tinued their changing in silence.

"The Nine Years' War, the great Economic Collapse. There was a choice between World Control
and destruction. Between stability and

.

."
.

"Fanny Crowne's a nice girl too," said the Assistant Predestinator.

In the nurseries, the Elementary Class Consciousness lesson was over, the voices were adapting future

demand to future industrial supply. "I do love flying," they whispered, "I

do love flying, I do love

having new clothes, I do love ..."

"Liberalism, of course, was dead of anthrax, but
all the same you couldn't do things by force."

"Not nearly so pneumatic

as Lenina.

Oh, not

nearly."

"But old clothes are beastly," continued the untiring whisper. "We always throw away old clothes.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Ending is better than mending, ending is better than
mending, ending is better ..."

"Government's an

affair of sitting,

not hitting.

You rule with the brains and the buttocks, never with
the fists. For example, there was the conscription of

consumption."

"There, I'm ready," said Lenina, but Fanny remained speechless and averted. "Let's make peace,
Fanny darling."

"Every man, woman and child compelled to
consume so much a year. In the interests of industry.
The sole result ..."

"Ending

is

better

than

mending.

The more

stitches, the less riches; the more stitches ..."

"One of these days," said Fanny, with dismal
emphasis, "you'll get into trouble."

"Conscientious objection on an enormous scale.
Anything not to consume. Back to nature."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"I do love flying, I do love flying."

"Back to culture. Yes, actually to culture. You
can't consume much if you sit still and read books."

"Do I look all right?" Lenina asked. Her jacket
was made of bottie-green acetate cloth with green
viscose fur at the cuffs and collar.
"Eight hundred Simple Lifers were mowed down
by machine guns at Golders Green."

"Ending is better than mending, ending is better
than mending."

Green corduroy shorts and white viscose-woollen
stockings turned down below the knee.

"Then came the famous British Museum Massacre.

Two

thousand

culture

fans

gassed

with

dichlorethyl sulphide."

A green-and-white jockey cap shaded Lenina's
eyes; her shoes
ished.

were bright green and highly pol-

BRA VE NEW WORLD
"In the end," said Mustapha Mond, "the Controllers realized that force was no good.

The slower

but infinitely surer methods of ectogenesis, neoPavlovian conditioning and hypnopasdia ..."

And round her waist she wore a silver-mounted
green
(for

morocco-surrogate

cartridge

belt,

bulging

Lenina was not a freemartin) with the regula-

tion supply of contraceptives.

"The discoveries of Pfitzner and Kawaguchi were
at last made use of. An intensive propaganda against
viviparous reproduction ..."

"Perfect!" cried Fanny enthusiastically. She could

never resist Lenina's charm for long. "And what a
perfectly sweet Malthusian belt!"

"Accompanied by a campaign against the Past;
by the closing of museums, the blowing up of historical monuments (luckily most of them had already
been destroyed during the Nine Years' War) by the
;

suppression of all books published before A.F.150."

"I simply must get one like it," said Fanny.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
"There were some things called the pyramids, for
example."

'My old black-patent bandolier

.

.

."

"And a man called Shakespeare. You've never
heard of them of course."

an absolute disgrace

"It's

—that bandolier of

mine."

"Such are the advantages of a really scientific
education."

"The more

stitches

the

less

riches;

of

Our

Ford's

the

more

stitches the less ..."

"The
Model

.

introduction
.

first

."

"I've had it nearly three months."

"Chosen as the opening date of the new era."

T-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Ending

is

better

than

mending;

ending

is

better ..."

"There was a thing, as I've said before, called
Christianity."

"Ending is better than mending."

"The ethics and philosophy of under-consumption ..."

"I love new clothes, I love new clothes, I love

.'
.

.

"So essential when there was under-production;
but in an age of machines and the fixation of
nitrogen

—positively a crime against society."

"Henry Foster gave it me."

"All crosses had their tops cut and became T's.

There was also a thing called God."

:

It's real

morocco-surrogate.
'

3

—

s62.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"We have the World State now. And Ford's Day
celebrations, and Community Sings, and Solidarity

Services."

"Ford,

how I hate them!" Bernard Marx was

thinking.

"There was a thing called Heaven; but all the
same they used to drink enormous quantities of
alcohol."

'Like meat, like so much meat.

5

"There was a thing called the soul and a thing
called immortality."

"Do ask Henry where he got it."

"But they used to take morphia and cocaine."

"And what makes it worse, she thinks of herself as
meat."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Two thousand pharmacologists and bio-chemists were

subsidized in a.f.

"He does look glum,"

i

78."

said the Assistant Pre-

destinator, pointing at Bernard Marx.

"Six years later

it

was being produced com-

mercially. The perfect drug."

"Let's bait him."

"Euphoric, narcotic, pleasantly hallucinant.

5

"Glum, Marx, glum." The clap on the shoulder
made him start, look up. It was that brute Henry
Foster. "What you need is a gramme of soma."

"All the advantages of Christianity and alcohol;

none of their defects."

"Ford, I should like to kill him!" But all he did
was to say, "No, thank you," and fend off the proffered tube of tablets.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Take a holiday from reality whenever you like,
and come back without so much as a headache or
a mythology."

"Take it," insisted Henry Foster, "take it."

"Stability was practically assured."

"One cubic centimetre cures ten gloomy sentiments," said the Assistant Predestinator citing a
piece of homely hypnopaedic wisdom.

"It only remained to conquer old age."

"Damn you, damn you!" shouted Bernard Marx.

"Hoity-toity."

"Gonadal hormones, transfusion of young blood,
."
magnesium salts
.

.

"And do remember that a gramme is better than
a damn." They went out, laughing.

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
"All the physiological stigmata of old age have
been abolished. And along with them, of course ..."

"Don't forget to ask him about that Malthusian
belt," said Fanny.

"Along with them
peculiarities.

all

the

old

man's mental

Characters remain constant through-

out a whole lifetime."

"... two rounds of Obstacle Golf to get through
before dark. I must fly."

—

"Work, play at sixty our powers and tastes are
what they were at seventeen. Old men in the bad
old days used to renounce, retire, take to religion,

spend their time reading, thinking

"Idiots,

swine!" Bernard

thinking!"

Marx was

saying to

himself, as he walked down the corridor to the lift.

"Now —such is progress —the old men work, the
men copulate, the old men have no time, no

old

BRAVE NEW WORLD
leisure from pleasure, not a moment to sit down and

think

—or

if ever

by some unlucky chance such a

crevice of time should yawn in the solid substance

of their distractions, there is always soma, delicious
soma, half a gramme for a half-holiday, a gramme
for a week-end,

two grammes for a trip to the gor-

geous East, three for a dark eternity on the moon;
returning whence they find themselves on the other
side of the crevice, safe on the solid ground of daily

labour and distraction, scampering from feely to

from girl to pneumatic
."
magnetic Golf course to

feely,

.

girl,

from Electro-

.

"Go away, littleigirl," shouted the D.H.G. angrily.
"Go away, little boy! Can't you see that his fordship's busy? Go and do your erotic play somewhere
else."

"Suffer little children," said the Controller.

humming of
machinery, the Conveyors moved forward, thirtythree centimetres an hour. In the red darkness
glinted innumerable rubies.
Slowly, majestically, with a faint

67

rv^fevi
CHAPTER FOUR
The lift was crowded with men from the Alpha
Changing Rooms, and Lenina's entry was greeted
by many friendly nods and smiles. She was a popular
girl and, at one time or another, had spent a night
with almost all of them.
They were dear boys, she thought, as she returned
their salutations. Charming boys! Still, she did wish
that George Edzel's ears weren't quite so big (perhaps he'd been given just a spot too much parathyroid at Metre 328?). And looking at Benito Hoover,

she couldn't help remembering that he was really too

hairy when he took his clothes off.

Turning, with eyes a little saddened by the recolshe saw in a
corner the small thin body, the melancholy face of

lection of Benito's curly blackness,

Bernard Marx.
"Bernard!" she stepped up to him. "I was looking

BRAVE NEW WORLD
for you." Her voice rang clear above the

hum of the

mounting lift. The others looked round curiously. "I
wanted to talk to you about our New Mexico plan."
Out of the tail of her eye she could see Benito Hoover
gaping with astonishment. The gape annoyed her.
"Surprised

I

shouldn't be begging to go with him

Then aloud, and more
warmly than ever, "I'd simply love to come with you
again!" she said to herself.

(Anyhow, she was
publicly proving her unfaithfulness to Henry. Fanny
ought to be pleased, even though it was Bernard.)
"That is," Lenina gave him her most deliciously
significant smile, "if you still want to have me."
Bernard's pale face flushed. "What on earth for?"
she wondered, astonished, but at the same time
touched by this strange tribute to her power.
"Hadn't we better talk about it somewhere else?"
he stammered, looking horribly uncomfortable.
"As though I'd been saying something shocking,"
thought Lenina. "He couldn't look more upset if
asked him who his mother
I'd made a dirty joke
for a week in July," she went on.

—

was, or something like that."
"I mean, with

all

these people about

..." He

was choked with confusion.
Lenina's laugh was frank and wholly unmalicious.
"How funny you are!" she said; and she quite
genuinely did think him funny. "You'll give me at
least a week's warning,

won't you," she went on in

another tone. "I suppose we take the Blue Pacific

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Rocket? Does it start from the Charing-T Tower?

Or is it from Hampstead?"
Before Bernard could answer, the lift came to a
standstill.

"Roof!" called a creaking voice.

The liftman was a small simian creature, dressed
in the black tunic of an Epsilon-Minus Semi-Moron.

"Roof!"

He flung open the gates. The warm glory of afternoon sunlight made him start and blink his eyes.
"Oh, roof!" he repeated in a voice of rapture. He
was as though suddenly and joyfully awakened from
a dark annihilating stupor. "Roof!"
He smiled up with a kind of doggily expectant
adoration into the faces of his passengers. Talking

and laughing together, they stepped out into the
light. The liftman looked after them.

"Roof?" he said once more, questioningly.

Then a bell rang, and from the ceiling of the lift
a loud speaker began, very softly and yet very imperiously, to issue its commands.

"Go down," it said, "go down. Floor Eighteen.
Go down, go down. Floor Eighteen. Go down,
go

•"
•

.

The liftman slammed the gates, touched a button
and instantly dropped back into the droning twilight
of the well, the twilight of his own habitual stupor.

warm and bright on the roof. The summer
afternoon was drowsy with the hum of passing heliIt was

BRAVE NEW WORLD
copters;

and the deeper drone of the rocket-planes

hastening, invisible, through the bright sky five or
six miles overhead was like

a caress on the soft air.

Bernard Marx drew a deep breath. He looked up
into the sky and round the blue horizon and finally

down into Lenina's face.
"Isn't it beautiful!" His voice trembled a little.

She smiled at him with an expression of the most
understanding. "Simply perfect for
Obstacle Golf," she answered rapturously. "And
now I must fly, Bernard. Henry gets cross if I keep
him waiting. Let me know in good time about the
date." And waving her hand, she ran away across
the wide flat roof towards the hangars. Bernard
stood watching the retreating twinkle of the white
stockings, the sunburnt knees vivaciously bending
and unbending, again, again, and the softer rolling of
those well-fitted corduroy shorts beneath the bottle
green jacket. His face wore an expression of pain.
"I should say she was pretty," said a loud and
cheery voice just behind him.
Bernard started and looked round. The chubby
red face of Benito Hoover was beaming down at him
beaming with manifest cordiality. Benito was
notoriously good-natured. People said of him that he
could have got through life without ever touching
soma. The malice and bad tempers from which
sympathetic

—

other people had to take holidays never afflicted him.
Reality for Benito was always sunny.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Pneumatic

too.

And how!" Then, in another

tone: "But, I say," he went on, "you do look glum!

What you need is a gramme of soma" Diving into his
right-hand trouser-pocket, Benito produced a phial.

"One cubic centimetre cures ten gloomy

.

.

.

But, I

say!"

Bernard had suddenly turned and rushed away.
Benito stared after him. "What can be the matter
with the fellow?" he wondered, and, shaking his
head, decided that the story about the alcohol having been put into the poor chap's blood-surrogate
must be true. "Touched his brain, I suppose."
He put away the soma bottle, and taking out a
packet of sex-hormone chewing-gum, stuffed a plug
into his cheek and walked slowly away towards the
hangars, ruminating.

Henry Foster had had his machine wheeled out
of its lock-up and, when Lenina arrived, was already
seated in the cockpit, waiting.

"Four minutes late," was all his comment, as she
climbed in beside him. He started the engines and
threw the helicopter screws into gear. The machine
shot vertically into the air.

Henry accelerated; the

humming of the propeller shrilled from hornet to
wasp, from wasp to mosquito; the speedometer
showed that they were rising at the best part of two
kilometres a minute.

London diminished beneath

them. The huge table-topped buildings were no
more, in a few seconds, than a bed of geometrical

BRAVE NEW WORLD
mushrooms sprouting from the green of park and
garden. In the midst of them, thin-stalked, a taller,
slenderer

fungus,

the

Charing-T

Tower

lifted

towards the sky a disk of shining concrete.
Like the vague torsos of fabulous athletes, huge
fleshy clouds lolled on the blue air above their heads.
Out of one of them suddenly dropped a small scarlet
insect, buzzing as it fell.

"There's the

Red Rocket,"

said

Henry, "just

come in from New York." Looking at his watch,
"Seven minutes behind time," he added, and shook
his head. "These Atlantic services
they're really

—

scandalously unpunctual."

He took his foot off the accelerator. The humming
of the screws overhead dropped an octave and a half,

back through wasp and hornet to bumble bee, to
cockchafer, to stag-beetle.

The upward rush of the

machine slackened off; a moment later they were
hanging motionless in the air. Henry pushed at a
lever; there was a click. Slowly at first, then faster
and faster, till it was a circular mist before their eyes,
the propeller in front of them began to revolve. The
wind of a horizontal speed whistled ever more shrilly
in the stays. Henry kept his eye on the revolutioncounter; when the needle touched the twelve hundred mark, he threw the helicopter screws out of
gear. The machine had enough forward momentum
to be able to fly on its planes.
Lenina looked down through the window in the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
floor between her feet. They were flying over the six
kilometre zone of park-land that separated Central

London from its first ring of satellite suburbs. The
green was maggoty with fore-shortened life. Forests
of Centrifugal Bumble-puppy towers gleamed be-

tween the trees. Near Shepherd's Bush two thousand
Beta-Minus mixed doubles were playing Riemannsurface tennis. A double row of Escalator Fives
Courts lined the main road from Notting Hill to
Willesden. In the Ealing stadium a Delta gymnastic
display and community sing was in progress.
"What a hideous colour khaki is," remarked
Lenina, voicing the hypnopaedic prejudices of her
caste.

The buildings of the Hounslow Feely Studio covered seven and a half hectares. Near them a black

and khaki army of labourers was busy revitrifying
the surface of the Great West Road. One of the huge
travelling crucibles was being tapped as they flew
over.

The molten stone poured out in a stream of

dazzling incandescence across the road; the asbestos
rollers

came and went; at the tail of an insulated

watering cart the steam rose in white clouds.
At Brentford the Television Corporation's factory was like a small town.
"They must be changing the shift," said Lenina.
Like aphides and ants, the leaf-green
girls,

the black Semi-Morons

Gamma

swarmed round the

entrances, or stood in queues to take their places in

BRA VE NEW WORLD
the monorail tram-cars. Mulberry-coloured Beta-

Minuses came, and went among the crowd. The roof
of the main building was alive with the alighting

and departure of helicopters.

"My word," said Lenina, "I'm glad I'm not a
Gamma."
Ten minutes later they were at Stoke Poges and
had started their first round of Obstacle Golf.

§2
With eyes for the most part downcast and, if ever
they lighted on a fellow creature, at once and furtively averted, Bernard hastened across the roof. He

was like a man pursued, but pursued by enemies he
does not wish to see, lest they should seem more hostile even than he had supposed, and he himself be
made to feel guiltier and even more helplessly alone.
"That horrible Benito Hoover!" And yet the man
had meant well enough. Which only made it, in a
way, much worse. Those who meant well behaved
in the same way as those who meant badly. Even
Lenina was making him suffer. He remembered
those weeks of timid indecision, during which he had
looked and longed and despaired of ever having the
courage to ask her. Dared he face the risk of being
humiliated by a contemptuous refusal? But if she
were to say yes, what rapture! Well, now she had
said it and he was still wretched wretched that she

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
should have thought it such a perfect afternoon for
Obstacle Golf, that she should have trotted away to
join Henry Foster, that she should have found him

funny for not wanting to talk of their most private
affairs in public. Wretched, in a word, because she
had behaved as any healthy and virtuous English
girl ought to behave and not in some other, abnormal, extraordinary way.
He opened the door of his lock-up and called to
a lounging couple of Delta-Minus attendants to come
and push his machine out on to the roof. The hangars were staffed by a single Bokanovsky Group, and
the men were twins, identically small, black and
hideous. Bernard gave his orders in the sharp, rather
arrogant and even offensive tone of one who does not
feel himself too secure in his superiority. To have
dealings with members of the lower castes was always, for Bernard, a most distressing experience. For
whatever the cause (and the current gossip about the

—for
—have been true) Bernard's

alcohol in his blood-surrogate may very likely
accidents will

happen

physique was hardly better than that of the average

Gamma. He stood eight centimetres short of the
standard Alpha height and was slender in proportion. Contact with members of the lower castes al-

ways

reminded

him

painfully

of

this

physical

inadequacy. "I am I, and wish I wasn't"; his selfconsciousness was acute and distressing. Each time
he found himself looking on the level, instead of

BRAVE NEW WORLD
downward, into a Delta's face, he felt humiliated.
Would the creature treat him with the respect due to
his caste? The question haunted him. Not without
reason. For Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons had been
to some extent conditioned to associate corporeal
mass with social superiority. Indeed, a faint hypnowas universal.
Hence the laughter of the women to whom he made
paedic prejudice in favour of size

proposals, the practical joking of his equals among

the men. The mockery made him feel an outsider;

and feeling an outsider he behaved like one, which
increased the prejudice against him and intensified
the contempt and hostility aroused by his physical
defects.

Which in turn increased his sense of being

and alone. A chronic fear of being slighted
made him avoid his equals, made him stand, where
his inferiors were concerned, self-consciously on his
dignity. How bitterly he envied men like Henry
Foster and Benito Hoover! Men who never had to
shout at an Epsilon to get an order obeyed; men who
alien

took their position for granted;

men who moved

through the caste system as a fish through the water
so utterly at home as to be unaware either of themselves or of the beneficent and comfortable element

—

in which they had their being.
Slackly, it seemed to him, and with reluctance, the

twin attendants wheeled his plane out on the roof.
"Hurry up!" said Bernard irritably. One of them

glanced at him. Was that a kind of bestial derision

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
that he detected in those blank grey eyes? "Hurry
up!" he shouted more loudly, and there was an

ugly rasp in his voice.

He climbed into the plane and, a minute later,
was flying southwards, towards the river.
The various Bureaux of Propaganda and the College of Emotional Engineering were housed in a
single sixty-story building in Fleet Street.

In the

basement and on the lower floors were the presses
and offices of the three great London newspapers
The Hourly Radio, an upper-caste sheet, the pale
green Gamma Gazette, and, on khaki paper and in
words exclusively of one syllable, The Delta Mirror.
Then came the Bureaux of Propaganda by Television, by Feeling Picture, and by Synthetic Voice
and Music respectively twenty-two floors of them.
Above were the research laboratories and the padded
rooms in which the Sound-Track Writers and
Synthetic Composers did their delicate work. The
top eighteen floors were occupied by the College of
Emotional Engineering.
Bernard landed on the roof of Propaganda House
and stepped out.
"Ring down to Mr. Helmholtz Watson," he or-

—

dered the Gamma- Plus porter, "and tell him that
Mr. Bernard Marx is waiting for him on the roof."
He sat down and lit a cigarette.
Helmholtz Watson was writing when the message

came down.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Tell him I'm coming at once," he said and hung
up the receiver. Then, turning to his secretary, "I'll
leave you to put my things away," he went on in the
same official and impersonal tone; and, ignoring her
lustrous smile, got up and walked briskly to the door.
He was a powerfully built man, deep-chested,
broad-shouldered, massive, and yet quick in his
movements, springy and agile. The round strong
pillar of his

neck supported a beautifully shaped

head. His hair was dark and curly, his features
strongly marked. In a forcible emphatic way, he

was handsome and looked, as his secretary was never
tired of repeating, every centimetre an Alpha-Plus.
By profession he was a lecturer at the College of
Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing)
and in the intervals of his educational activities, a
working Emotional Engineer. He wrote regularly for
The Hourly Radio, composed feely scenarios, and had
the happiest knack for slogans and hypnopaedic
rhymes.
"Able," was the verdict of his superiors. "Perhaps," (and they would shake their heads, would

"a little too able."
A mental
excess had produced in Helmholtz Watson effects
very similar to those which, in Bernard Marx, were
the result of a physical defect. Too little bone and
brawn had isolated Bernard from his fellow men, and
the sense of this apartness, being, by all the current

significantly lower their voices)

Yes, a little too able; they were right.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
became in its turn a
cause of wider separation. That which had made
standards, a mental excess,

Helmholtz so uncomfortably aware of being himself
and all alone was too much ability. What the two
men shared was the knowledge that they were individuals. But whereas the physically defective
Bernard had suffered all his life from the consciousness of being separate, it was only quite recently
that, grown aware of his mental excess, Helmholtz
Watson had also become aware of his difference from
the people who surrounded him. This EscalatorSquash champion, this indefatigable lover (it was
said that he had had six hundred and forty different
girls in under four years), this admirable committee
man and best mixer had realized quite suddenly
that sport, women, communal activities were only,
so far as he was concerned, second bests. Really,
and at the bottom, he was interested in something
else. But in what? In what? That was the problem
which Bernard had come to discuss with him or
rather, since it was always Helmholtz who did all
the talking, to listen to his friend discussing, yet once
more.
Three charming girls from the Bureau of Propaganda by Synthetic Voice waylaid him as he

—

stepped out of the lift.

"Oh, Helmholtz, darling, do come and have a
picnic supper with us on Exmoor." They clung
round him imploringly.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
He shook his head, he pushed his way through
them. "No, no."
"We're not inviting any other man."
But Helmholtz remained unshaken even by this
delightful promise. "No," he repeated, "I'm busy."
And he held resolutely on his course. The girls trailed
after him. It was not till he had actually climbed into
Bernard's plane and slammed the door that they
gave up pursuit. Not without reproaches.
"These women!" he said, as the machine rose into
the air. "These women!" And he shook his head, he
frowned. "Too awful," Bernard hypocritically
agreed, wishing, as he spoke the words, that he
could have as many girls as Helmholtz did, and with
as little trouble. He was seized with a sudden urgent
need to boast. "I'm taking Lenina Crowne to New
Mexico with me," he said in a tone as casual as he
could make it.

"Are you?" said Helmholtz, with a total absence
of interest. Then after a little pause, "This last week
or two," he went on, "I've been cutting all my committees and all my girls. You can't imagine what a

hullabaloo they've been making about
College.

Still,

effects ..."

it's

been worth

it,

I

it

at the

think.

The

He hesitated. "Well, they're odd, they're

very odd."

A physical shortcoming could produce a kind
The process, it seemed, was reversible. Mental excess could produce, for its own
of mental excess.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
purposes, the voluntary blindness
deliberate

the

solitude,

artificial

and deafness of
impotence

of

asceticism.

The rest of the short flight was accomplished in

When they had arrived and were comforta-

silence.

bly stretched out on the pneumatic sofas in Bernard's

room, Helmholtz began again.
Speaking very slowly, "Did you ever feel," he
asked, "as though you had something inside you
that was only waiting for you to give it a chance to
come out? Some sort of extra power that you aren't
using you know, like all the water that goes down
the falls instead of through the turbines?" He looked
at Bernard questioningly.
"You mean all the emotions one might be feeling
if things were different?"
Helmholtz shook his head. "Not quite. I'm thinking of a queer feeling I sometimes get, a feeling that
I've got something important to say and the power

—

—

only I don't know what it is, and I can't
to say it
make any use of the power. If there was some different way of writing
Or else something else to
." He was silent; then, "You see,"
write about
.

.

.

.

.

he went on at last, "I'm pretty good at inventing
phrases you know, the sort of words that suddenly
make you jump, almost as though you'd sat on a
pin, they seem so new and exciting even though
they're about something hypnopaedically obvious.
But that doesn't seem enough. It's not enough for

—

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
the phrases to be good; what you make with them

ought to be good too."
"But your things are good, Helmholtz."
"Oh, as far as they go." Helmholtz shrugged his
shoulders. "But they go such a little way. They aren't
important enough, somehow. I feel I could do
something much more important. Yes, and more
intense, more violent. But what? What is there more
important to say? And how can one be violent about
the sort of things one's expected to write about?
Words can be like X-rays, if you use them properly
they'll go through anything. You read and you're
pierced. That's one of the things I try to teach my

—

students

—how to write piercingly. But what on

earth's the good of being pierced by an article about

a

Community Sing, or the latest improvement in
you make words really

scent organs? Besides, can

piercing

—you know,

like the very hardest X-rays

when you're writing about that sort of thing? Can
you say something about nothing? That's what it
finally boils down to. I try and I try ..."
"Hush!" said Bernard suddenly, and lifted a
warning finger; they listened. "I believe there's
somebody at the door," he whispered.
Helmholtz got up, tiptoed across the room, and
with a sharp quick movement flung the door wide
open. There was, of course, nobody there.
"I'm sorry," said Bernard, feeling and looking
uncomfortably foolish. "I suppose I've got things on

BRAVE NEW WORLD
my nerves a bit. When people are suspicious with
you, you start being suspicious with them."

He passed his hand across his eyes, he sighed,
became plaintive. He was justifying him-

his voice
self.

"If you

knew what I'd had to put up with

recently," he said almost tearfully

—and the uprush

of his self-pity was like a fountain suddenly released.

"If you only knew!"

Helmholtz Watson listened with a certain sense
of discomfort. "Poor little Bernard!" he said to himself. But at the same time he felt rather ashamed for
his friend. He wished Bernard would show a little

more pride.

CNp^^V-)

CHAPTER FIVE
By eight o'clock the light was failing. The loud
speakers in the tower of the Stoke

Poges Club

House began, in a more than human tenor, to announce the closing of the courses. Lenina and Henry
abandoned their game and walked back towards the
Club. From the grounds of the Internal and External
Secretion Trust came the lowing of those thousands
of cattle which provided, with their hormones and
their milk, the raw materials for the great factory at

Farnham Royal.

An incessant

buzzing of helicopters filled the
twilight. Every two and a half minutes a bell and the
screech of whistles announced the departure of one
of the light monorail trains which carried the lower
caste golfers back from their separate course to the
metropolis.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Lenina and Henry climbed into their machine
and started off. At eight hundred feet Henry slowed

down the helicopter screws, and they hung for a
minute or two poised above the fading landscape.

The forest of Burnham Beeches stretched like a great
pool of darkness towards the bright shore of the
western sky. Crimson at the horizon, the last of the
sunset faded, through orange, upwards into yellow

and a pale watery green. Northwards, beyond and
above the trees, the Internal and External Secretions
factory glared with a fierce electric brilliance from
every window of its twenty stories. Beneath them lay
the buildings of the Golf Club the huge Lower
Caste barracks and, on the other side of a dividing
wall, the smaller houses reserved for Alpha and
Beta members. The approaches to the monorail
station were black with the ant-like pullulation of
lower-caste activity. From under the glass vault a

—

lighted train shot out into the open. Following

its

course across the dark plain their
drawn
to the majestic buildings of the
were
eyes
Slough Crematorium. For the safety of night-flying
planes, its four tall chimneys were flood-lighted and
tipped with crimson danger signals. It was a landmark.
"Why do the smoke-stacks have those things like
balconies round them?" enquired Lenina.
"Phosphorus recovery," explained Henry telegraphically. "On their way up the chimney the

southeasterly

BRAVE NEW WORLD
gases go through

four separate treatments. P 2 5
used to go right out of circulation every time they

cremated some one. Now they recover over ninetyeight per cent, of it. More than a kilo and a half
per adult corpse. Which makes the best part of four

hundred tons of phosphorus every year from England alone." Henry spoke with a happy pride,
rejoicing whole-heartedly in the achievement,

as

though it had been his own. "Fine to think we can
go on being socially useful even after we're dead.
Making plants grow."
Lenina, meanwhile, had turned her eyes away
and was looking perpendicularly downwards at the
monorail station. "Fine," she agreed. "But queer
that Alphas and Betas won't make any more plants
grow than those nasty little Gammas and Deltas and
Epsilons down there."

"All

men

are

physico-chemically equal," said

Henry sententiously.

"Besides, even Epsilons perform indispensable services."
"Even an Epsilon ..." Lenina suddenly remembered an occasion when, as a little girl at school, she
had woken up in the middle of the night and become

aware, for the first time, of the whispering that had

haunted all her sleeps. She saw again the beam of
moonlight, the row of small white beds; heard once
more the soft, soft voice that said (the words were
there,

unforgotten,

unforgettable

after

so

many

night-long repetitions): "Every one works for every

BRAVE NEW WORLD
one else. We can't do without any one. Even Epsilons
are useful. We couldn't do without Epsilons. Everyone works for every one else. We can't do without
any one ..." Lenina remembered her first shock of
fear and surprise; her speculations through half
a wakeful hour; and then, under the influence of
those endless repetitions, the gradual soothing of her
mind, the soothing, the smoothing, the stealthy
creeping of sleep.

.

.

.

"I suppose Epsilons don't really mind being Epsilons," she said aloud.

"Of course they don't. How can they? They don't
know what it's like being anything else. We'd mind,
of course. But then we've been differendy conditioned. Besides, we start with a different hered-

"I'm glad I'm not an Epsilon," said Lenina, with
conviction.

"And if you were an Epsilon," said Henry, "your
conditioning would have made you no less thankful
that you weren't a Beta or an Alpha." He put his

forward propeller into gear and headed the machine
towards London. Behind them, in the west, the
crimson and orange were almost faded; a dark bank
of cloud had crept into the zenith. As they flew over
the Crematorium, the plane shot upwards on the

column of hot air rising from the chimneys, only to
fall as

suddenly when it passed into the descending

chill beyond.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"What a marvellous switchback!" Lenina laughed
delightedly.

But Henry's tone was almost, for a moment, melancholy. "Do you know what that switchback was?"

was some human being finally and
definitely disappearing. Going up in a squirt of hot
gas. It would be curious to know who it was
a man
." He sighed.
or a woman, an Alpha or an Epsilon.
Then, in a resolutely cheerful voice, "Anyhow," he
concluded, "there's one thing we can be certain of;
whoever he may have been, he was happy when he
was alive. Everybody's happy now."
"Yes, everybody's happy now," echoed Lenina.
They had heard the words repeated a hundred and
he

said.

"It

—

.

.

fifty times every night for twelve years.

Landing on the roof of Henry's forty-story apartment house in Westminster, they went straight down
to the dining-hall. There, in a loud and cheerful
company, they ate an excellent meal. Soma was
served with the coffee. Lenina took two half-gramme

and Henry three. At twenty past nine they
walked across the street to the newly opened Westminster Abbey Cabaret. It was a night almost without clouds, moonless and starry; but of this on the
whole depressing fact Lenina and Henry were fortablets

The electric sky-signs effectively
shut off the outer darkness. "Calvin Stopes and
His Sixteen Sexophonists." From the facade of the
new Abbey the giant letters invitingly glared.
tunately unaware.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"London's Finest Scent and Colour Organ.
All the Latest Synthetic Music."
They entered. The air seemed hot and somehow
breathless with the scent of ambergris

and sandal-

wood. On the domed ceiling of the hall, the colour
organ had momentarily painted a tropical sunset.
The Sixteen Sexophonists were playing an old
favourite: "There ain't no Bottle in all the world
like that dear little Bottle of mine." Four hundred
couples were five-stepping round the polished floor.
Lenina and Henry were soon the four hundred and
first.

The sexophones wailed like melodious cats un-

der the moon, moaned in the alto and tenor registers
as though the little death were upon them. Rich with

a wealth of harmonics, their tremulous chorus
mounted towards a climax, louder and ever louder
until at last, with a wave of his hand, the conduc-

—

tor let loose the final shattering note of ether-music

and blew the sixteen merely human blowers clean
out of existence. Thunder in A flat major. And then,
in all but silence, in all but darkness, there followed

a gradual deturgescence, a diminuendo sliding gradudown to a faintly
whispered dominant chord that lingered on (while
the five-four rhythms still pulsed below) charging
the darkened seconds with an intense expectancy.
And at last expectancy was fulfilled. There was a
sudden explosive sunrise, and simultaneously, the
ally, through quarter tones, down,

Sixteen burst into song:

BRAVE NEW WORLD
1

Bottle of mine, it'syou I've always wanted/

Bottle of mine, why was I ever decanted?

Skies are blue inside ofyou,

The weather's always fine;
For
There ain't no Bottle in all the world
Like that dear little Bottle of mine."

Five-stepping with the other four hundred round
and round Westminster Abbey, Lenina and Henry
were yet dancing in another world the warm, the

—

richly coloured, the infinitely friendly world ofsoma-

holiday.

How kind, how good-looking, how delight-

amusing every one was! "Bottle of mine, it's
you I've always wanted ..." But Lenina and Henry
They were inside, here
had what they wanted
and now safely inside with the fine weather, the
perennially blue sky. And when, exhausted, the
Sixteen had laid by their sexophones and the Synthetic Music apparatus was producing the very
latest in slow Malthusian Blues, they might have
been twin embryos gently rocking together on the
waves of a bottled ocean of blood-surrogate.
fully

.

.

.

—

"Good-night,
friends."

dear

friends.

Good-night,

dear

The loud speakers veiled their commands

and musical politeness. "Good-night,
dear friends. ..."
Obediently, with all the others, Lenina and Henry

in a genial

left

the building. The depressing stars had travelled

quite some way across the heavens. But though the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
separating screen of the sky-signs had now to a great
extent dissolved, the two young people still retained
their happy ignorance of the night.

Swallowed half an hour before closing time, that
second dose of soma had raised a quite impenetrable
wall between the actual universe and their minds.
Bottled, they crossed the street; bottled, they took

up to Henry's room on the twenty-eighth
floor. And yet, bottled as she was, and in spite of that
the

lift

second gramme of soma, Lenina did not forget to
take all the contraceptive precautions prescribed by
the regulations. Years of intensive hypnopaedia and,

from twelve to seventeen, Malthusian drill three
times a week had made the taking of these precautions almost as automatic and inevitable as blinking.
"Oh, and that reminds me," she said, as she came
back from the bathroom, "Fanny Crowne wants to
know where you found that lovely green moroccosurrogate cartridge belt you gave me."

§2
Alternate Thursdays were Bernard's

Solidarity

Service days. After an early dinner at the Aphro-

ditaeum (to which Helmholtz had recently been
elected under Rule Two) he took leave of his friend
and, hailing a taxi on the roof, told the man to fly

Fordson Community Singery. The machine
rose a couple of hundred metres, then headed eastto the

BRA VE NEW WORLD
wards, and as

it

turned,

there before Bernard's

eyes, gigantically beautiful, was the Singery. Flood-

lighted, its three hundred and twenty metres of
white Carrara-surrogate gleamed with a snowy in-

candescence over Ludgate Hill; at each of the four

immense T
shone crimson against the night, and from the
mouths of twenty-four vast golden trumpets rumbled
corners of its helicopter platform an

a solemn synthetic music.

"Damn, I'm late," Bernard said to himself as
he

first

clock.

caught sight of Big Henry, the Singery

And sure enough, as he was paying off his

cab, Big

Henry sounded the hour. "Ford," sang

out an immense bass voice from all the golden trumpets.

"Ford, Ford, Ford

.

.

."

Nine times. Bernard

ran for the lift.

The great auditorium for Ford's Day celebrations
and other massed Community Sings was at the
bottom of the building. Above it, a hundred to each
were the seven thousand rooms used by SoliGroups for their fortnight services. Bernard
dropped down to floor thirty-three, hurried along
floor,

darity

the corridor, stood hesitating for a moment outside

Room 3210, then, having wound himself up, opened
the door and walked in.

Thank Ford! he was not the last. Three chairs of
the twelve arranged round the circular table were
still

unoccupied. He slipped into the nearest of them

as inconspicuously as he could and prepared to frown

'

BRAVE NEW WORLD
at the yet later comers whenever they should arrive.

Turning towards him, "What were you playing
this afternoon?" the girl on his left enquired. "Obstacle, or Electro-magnetic?'

was Morgana
Rothschild) and blushingly had to admit that he
had been playing neither. Morgana stared at him
with astonishment. There was an awkward silence.
Then pointedly she turned away and addressed
herself to the more sporting man on her left.
"A good beginning for a Solidarity Service,"
thought Bernard miserably, and foresaw for himself
yet another failure to achieve atonement. If only he
had given himself time to look round instead of
scuttiing for the nearest chair! He could have sat
between Fifi Bradlaugh and Joanna Diesel. Instead
of which he had gone and blindly planted himself
next to Morgana. Morgana! Ford! Those black eyebrows of hers that eyebrow, rather for they met
above the nose. Ford! And on his right was Clara
Deterding. True, Clara's eyebrows didn't meet.
But she was really too pneumatic. Whereas Fifi and
Joanna were absolutely right. Plump, blonde, not
And it was that great lout, Tom Kawatoo large
guchi, who now took the seat between them.
The last arrival was Sarojini Engels.
Bernard looked at her (Ford!

—

.

.

it

—

.

"You're late," said the President of the Group
severely. "Don't let it happen again."
Sarojini apologized and slid into her place be-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
tween Jim Bokanovsky and Herbert Bakunin. The
group was now complete, the solidarity circle perfect and without flaw. Man, woman, man, in a ring
of endless alternation round the table. Twelve of
them ready to be made one, waiting to come together, to be fused, to lose their twelve separate
identities in a larger being.

The President stood up, made the sign of the T
and, switching on the synthetic music, let loose the
soft

indefatigable beating of

of instruments

drums and a choir

—near-wind and super-string —that

plangently repeated and repeated the brief and un-

escapably haunting melody of the first Solidarity
Hymn. Again, again and it was not the ear that

—

heard the pulsing rhythm, it was the midriff; the
wail and clang of those recurring harmonies haunted,
not the mind, but the yearning bowels of compassion.
The President made another sign of the T and
sat down. The service had begun. The dedicated
soma tablets were placed in the centre of the table.
The loving cup of strawberry ice-cream soma was
passed from hand to hand and, with the formula,
"I drink to my annihilation," twelve times quaffed.

Then to the accompaniment of the synthetic orchestra the First Solidarity

Hymn was sung.

"Ford, we are twelve; oh, make us one,
Like drops within the Social River;

Oh, make us now together run

As swiftly as thy shining Flivver."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Twelve yearning stanzas. And then the loving cup
was passed a second time. "I drink to the Greater
Being" was now the formula. All drank. Tirelessly
the music played. The drums beat. The crying and
clashing of the harmonies were an obsession in the
melted bowels. The Second Solidarity Hymn was
sung.
"Come, Greater Being, Social Friend,
Annihilating Twelve-in-One!

We long to die, for when we end,
Our larger life has but begun"

Again twelve stanzas. By this time the soma had
begun to work. Eyes shone, cheeks were flushed,
the inner light of universal benevolence broke out

on every face in happy, friendly smiles. Even Bernard
felt

himself a little melted. When Morgana Roths-

child turned and beamed at him, he did his best to

beam back. But the eyebrow, that black two-in-one

—

alas,

it

was

still

he couldn't ignore

there;

it,

couldn't, however hard he tried. The melting hadn't

gone far enough. Perhaps if he had been sitting beFor the third time the
tween Fifi and Joanna
"I
drink
to the imminence
round.
went
loving cup
of His Coming," said Morgana Rothschild, whose
turn it happened to be to initiate the circular rite.
Her tone was loud, exultant. She drank and passed
.

.

.

the cup to Bernard. "I drink to the imminence of

His Coming," he repeated, with a sincere attempt to

BRAVE NEW WORLD
feel that the coming was imminent; but the eyebrow

continued to haunt him, and the Coming, so far as he
was concerned, was horribly remote. He drank and
handed the cup to Clara Deterding. "It'll be a failure
again," he said to himself. "I know it will." But he

went on doing his best to beam.
The loving cup had made its circuit. Lifting his
hand, the President gave a signal; the chorus broke
out into the third Solidarity Hymn.

"Feel how the Greater Being comes!
Rejoice and, in rejoicings, die!

Melt in the music of the drums!
For I am you and you are I"

As verse succeeded verse the voices thrilled with
an ever intenser excitement. The sense of the Coming's imminence was like an electric tension in the
air.

The President switched off the music and, with

the final note of the final stanza, there was absolute
silence

—the silence of stretched expectancy, quiver-

ing and creeping with a galvanic life. The President
reached out his hand; and suddenly a Voice, a

deep strong Voice, more musical than any merely
human voice, richer, warmer, more vibrant with love
and yearning and compassion, a wonderful, mysterious, supernatural Voice spoke from above their
heads. Very slowly, "Oh, Ford, Ford, Ford," it said
diminishingly and on a descending scale. A sensation

BRAVE NEW WORLD
of warmth radiated thrillingly out from the solar
plexus to every extremity of the bodies of those who
listened; tears came into their eyes; their hearts, their

bowels seemed to move within them, as though with
an independent life. "Ford!" they were melting,
"Ford!" dissolved, dissolved. Then, in another tone,
suddenly, startlingly. "Listen!" trumpeted the

They listened. After a pause, sunk
but a whisper, somehow, more penetrating than the loudest cry. "The feet of the Greater
Being," it went on, and repeated the words: "The
feet of the Greater Being." The whisper almost expired. "The feet of the Greater Being are on the
stairs." And once more there was silence; and the
expectancy, momentarily relaxed, was stretched
again, tauter, tauter, almost to the tearing point.
The feet of the Greater Being oh, they heard them,
they heard them, coming softly down the stairs,
coming nearer and nearer down the invisible stairs.
The feet of the Greater Being. And suddenly the
tearing point was reached. Her eyes staring, her
lips parted, Morgana Rothschild sprang to her
voice. "Listen!"
to a whisper,

—

feet.

"I hear him," she cried. "I hear him."

"He's coming," shouted Sarojini Engels.
"Yes, he's coming, I hear him." Fifi Bradlaugh

and Tom Kawaguchi rose simultaneously to their
feet.

"Oh, oh, oh!" Joanna inarticulately testified.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"He's coming!" yelled Jim Bokanovsky.
The President leaned forward and, with a touch,
released a delirium of cymbals and blown brass, a
fever of tom-tomming.

"Oh, he's coming!" screamed Clara Deterding.
"Aie!" and it was as though she were having her
throat cut.

Feeling that it was time for him to do something,

Bernard also jumped up and shouted: "I hear
him; He's coming." But it wasn't true. He heard
nothing and, for him, nobody was coming. Nobody

—in

spite of the music, in spite

of the mounting

excitement. But he waved his arms, he shouted with
the best of them; and when the others began to jig

and stamp and shuffle, he also jigged and shuffled.

Round they went, a circular procession of dancers,
each with hands on the hips of the dancer preceding,
round and round, shouting in unison, stamping to
the rhythm of the music with their feet, beating it,
beating it out with hands on the buttocks in front;
twelve pairs of hands beating as one; as one, twelve
buttocks slabbily resounding. Twelve as one, twelve
as one. "I hear

Him, I hear Him coming." The

music quickened; faster beat the feet, faster, faster
the rhythmic hands. And all at once a great
synthetic bass boomed out the words which announced the approaching atonement and final consummation of solidarity, the coming of the Twelvein-One, the incarnation of the Greater Being.

fell

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Orgy-porgy,"

it

sang, while the tom-toms con-

tinued to beat their feverish tattoo:
"Orgy-porgy, Ford and fun,
Kiss the girls and make them One.

Boys at one with girls at peace;
Orgy-porgy gives release."

"Orgy-porgy," the dancers caught up the liturgical refrain, "Orgy-porgy, Ford and fun, kiss the
girls ..." And as they sang, the lights began slowly
to fade to fade and at the same time to grow
warmer, richer, redder, until at last they were dancing in the crimson twilight of an Embryo Store.
." In their blood-coloured and foetal
"Orgy-Porgy
darkness the dancers continued for a while to cir-

—

.

.

and beat out the indefatigable
." Then the circle wavered,
rhythm. "Orgy-porgy
broke, fell in partial disintegration on the ring of
couches which surrounded circle enclosing circle
."
the table and its planetary chairs. "Orgy-porgy
Tenderly the deep Voice crooned and cooed; in the
red twilight it was as though some enormous negro
culate,

to

beat

.

.

—

.

.

dove were hovering benevolently over the now prone
or supine dancers.

They were standing on the roof; Big Henry had
just sung eleven. The night was calm and warm.
"Wasn't it wonderful?" said Fifi Bradlaugh.
"Wasn't it simply wonderful?" She looked at Ber-

BRA VE NEW WORLD
nard with an expression of rapture, but of rapture in
which there was no trace of agitation or excitement
for to be excited is still to be unsatisfied. Hers was
the calm ecstasy of achieved consummation, the
peace, not of mere vacant satiety and nothingness,
but of balanced life, of energies at rest and in equilibrium. A rich and living peace. For the Solidarity
Service had given as well as taken, drawn off only to
replenish. She was full, she was made perfect, she
was still more than merely herself. "Didn't you think
it was wonderful?" she insisted, looking into Ber-

—

nard's face with those supernaturally shining eyes.

"Yes,

I

thought it was wonderful," he lied and

looked away; the sight of her transfigured face was at

once an accusation and an ironical reminder of his
own separateness. He was as miserably isolated now
as he had been when the service began
more iso-

—

lated by reason of his unreplenished emptiness, his

Separate and unatoned, while the
others were being fused into the Greater Being; alone

dead

satiety.

even in Morgana's embrace

—much more alone, in-

deed, more hopelessly himself than he had ever been
in his life before. He had emerged from that crimson

twilight into the common electric glare with a self-

consciousness intensified to the pitch of agony.

He

was utterly miserable, and perhaps (her shining eyes
accused him), perhaps it was his own fault. "Quite
wonderful," he repeated; but the only thing he could
think of was Morgana's eyebrow.

rv^^v-vO

CHAPTER SIX
Odd, odd, odd, was Lenina's verdict on Bernard
Marx. So odd, indeed, that in the course of the succeeding weeks she had wondered more than once
whether she shouldn't change her mind about the
New Mexico holiday, and go instead to the North
Pole with Benito Hoover. The trouble was that she
knew the North Pole, had been there with George
Edzel only last summer, and what was more, found
it pretty grim. Nothing to do, and the hotel too
hopelessly old-fashioned no television laid on in
the bedrooms, no scent organ, only the most putrid
synthetic music, and not more than twenty-five
Escalator-Squash Courts for over two hundred
guests. No, decidedly she couldn't face the North
Pole again. Added to which, she had only been to
America once before. And even then, how inadequately! A cheap week-end in New York had it

—

—

BRA VE NEW WORLD
been with Jean-Jacques Habibullah or Bokanovsky
Jones? She couldn't remember. Anyhow, it was of
absolutely no importance. The prospect of flying
West again, and for a whole week, was very inviting.
Moreover, for at least three days of that week they
would be in the Savage Reservation. Not more than
half a dozen people in the whole Centre had ever
been inside a Savage Reservation. As an AlphaPlus psychologist, Bernard was one of the few men
she knew entitled to a permit. For Lenina, the opportunity was unique. And yet, so unique also was
Bernard's oddness that she had hesitated to take it,

had actually thought of risking the Pole again with
funny old Benito. At least Benito was normal.
Whereas Bernard
"Alcohol in his blood-surrogate, " was Fanny's
explanation of every eccentricity. But Henry, with
whom, one evening when they were in bed together,
Lenina had rather anxiously discussed her new lover,
Henry had compared poor Bernard to a rhinoceros.
"You can't teach a rhinoceros tricks," he had ex.

.

.

plained in his brief and vigorous style.

"Some men

are almost rhinoceroses; they don't respond properly
to conditioning. Poor Devils

!

Bernard's one of them.

Luckily for him, he's pretty good at his job. Otherwise the Director would never have kept him. However," he

added consolingly, "I think he's pretty

harmless."
Pretty harmless,

perhaps; but also pretty dis-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
quieting. That mania, to start with, for doing things
in private. Which meant, in practice, not doing any-

thing at all. For what was there that one could do in

from going to bed: but
one couldn't do that all the time.) Yes, what was
there? Precious little. The first afternoon they went
out together was particularly fine. Lenina had suggested a swim at Torquay Country Club followed by
dinner at the Oxford Union. But Bernard thought
there would be too much of a crowd. Then what
about a round of Electro-magnetic Golf at St.
Andrew's? But again, no: Bernard considered that
Electro-magnetic Golf was a waste of time.
"Then what's time for?" asked Lenina in some
private. (Apart, of course,

astonishment.

Apparently, for going walks in the Lake District;
for that was what he now proposed. Land on the top
of Skiddaw and walk for a couple of hours in the
heather. "Alone with you, Lenina."
"But, Bernard, we shall be alone all night."
Bernard blushed and looked away. "I meant,
alone for talking," he mumbled.
"Talking? But what about?" Walking and talking
that seemed a very odd way of spending an after-

—

noon.

In the end she persuaded him, much against his
will, to fly over to Amsterdam to see the Semi-DemiFinals of the Women's Heavyweight Wrestling

Championship.

BRAVE MEW WORLD
"In a crowd," he grumbled. "As usual." He remained obstinately gloomy the whole .afternoon;
wouldn't talk to Lenina's friends (of whom they
met dozens in the ice-cream soma bar between the
wrestling bouts) and in spite of his misery absolutely
refused to take the half-gramme raspberry sundae
;

which she pressed upon him. "I'd rather be myself,"
he said. "Myself and nasty. Not somebody else,
however jolly."

"A gramme in time saves nine," said Lenina,
producing a bright treasure of sleep-taught wisdom.
Bernard pushed away the proffered glass impatiently.

"Now don't lose your temper," she said. "Remember, one cubic centimetre cures ten gloomy
sentiments."

"Oh, for Ford's sake, be quiet!" he shouted.
Lenina shrugged her shoulders. "A gramme is
always better than a damn," she concluded with
dignity, and drank the sundae herself.
On their way back across the Channel, Bernard
insisted on stopping his propeller and hovering on
his helicopter screws within a hundred feet of the
waves. The weather had taken a change for the
worse; a south-westerly wind had sprung up, the sky
was cloudy.
"Look," he commanded.
"But it's horrible," said Lenina, shrinking back
from the window. She was appalled by the rushing

BRAVE NEW WORLD
emptiness of the night, by the black foam-flecked

water heaving beneath them, by the pale face of the
moon, so haggard and distracted among the hastening clouds. "Let's turn on the radio. Quick!" She
reached for the dialling knob on the dash-board and

turned it at random.
".
skies are blue inside of you," sang sixteen
tremoloing falsettos, "the weather's always ..."
.

.

Then

a

hiccough

and

silence.

had

Bernard

switched off the current.
"I want to look at the sea in peace," he said.

"One can't even look with that beastly noise going
on.

"But it's lovely. And I don't want to look."
"But I do," he insisted. "It makes me feel as
." he hesitated, searching for words with
though
which to express himself, "as though I were more
me, if you see what I mean. More on my own, not so
completely a part of something else. Not just a cell
in the social body. Doesn't it make you feel like that,
Lenina?"
But Lenina was crying. "It's horrible, it's horrible," she kept repeating. "And how can you talk
like that about not wanting to be a part of the social
body? After all, every one works for every one else.
."
We can't do without any one. Even Epsilons
"
'Even
"Yes, I know," said Bernard derisively.
damned
well
Epsilons are useful'! So am I. And I
.

.

.

wish I weren't!"

.

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
Lenina was shocked by his blasphemy. "Bernard!" She protested in a voice of amazed distress.
"How can you?"
In a different key, "How can I?" he repeated
meditatively. "No, the real problem is: How is it that

—because, after
know quite
can't —what would
be
could,
well why
were free —not enslaved by my conditioning."
I can't,

or rather

I

all,

I

it

like if I

if I

"But,

Bernard,

you're

saying the

most awful

things."

"Don't you wish you were free, Lenina?"
"I don't know what you mean. I am free. Free
to have the most wonderful time. Everybody's happy
nowadays."
He laughed, "Yes," 'Everybody's happy nowadays.'

We begin giving the children that at five.

But wouldn't you like to be free to be happy in some
other way, Lenina? In your own way, for example;
not in everybody else's way."
"I don't know what you mean," she repeated.
Then, turning to him, "Oh, do let's go back, Bernard," she besought; "I do so hate it here."
"Don't you like being with me?"
"But of course, Bernard. It's this horrible place."
"I thought we'd be more
more together here
with nothing but the sea and moon. More together
than in that crowd, or even in my rooms. Don't you
understand that?"
"I don't understand anything," she said with de.

.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
cision, determined to preserve her incomprehension

"Nothing. Least of all," she continued in
another tone, "why you don't take soma when you
have these dreadful ideas of yours. You'd forget all
about them. And instead of feeling miserable, you'd
intact.

be jolly. So jolly," she repeated and smiled, for all
the puzzled anxiety in her eyes, with what was meant
to be an inviting and voluptuous cajolery.

He looked at her in silence, his face unresponsive
and very grave

—looked at her intently. After a few

seconds Lenina's eyes flinched away; she uttered a

nervous little laugh, tried to think of something to
say and couldn't. The silence prolonged itself.

When Bernard spoke at last, it was in a small tired
voice. "All right then,"

he said, "we'll go back."

And stepping hard on the accelerator, he sent the
machine rocketing up into the sky. At four thousand
he started his propeller. They flew in silence for a
minute or two. Then, suddenly, Bernard began to
laugh. Rather oddly, Lenina thought; but still, it

was laughter.
"Feeling better?" she ventured to ask.

For answer, he lifted one hand from the controls
and, slipping his arm round her, began to fondle
her breasts.

"Thank Ford," she said to herself, "he's all right
again."

Half an hour later they were back in his rooms.
Bernard swallowed four tablets of soma at a gulp,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
turned on the radio and television and began to
undress.

"Well," Lenina enquired, with significant archwhen they met next afternoon on the roof,

ness

"did you think it was fun yesterday?"
Bernard nodded. They climbed into the plane.

A little jolt, and they were off.
"Every one says I'm awfully pneumatic," said
Lenina reflectively, patting her own legs.
"Awfully." But there was an expression of pain
in Bernard's eyes. "Like meat," he was thinking.
She looked up with a certain anxiety. "But you
don't think I'm too plump, do you?"

He shook his head. Like so much meat.
"You think I'm all right." Another nod. "In every
way?"
"Perfect," he said aloud.
thinks of herself that way.

And inwardly, "She

She doesn't mind being

meat."
Lenina smiled triumphantly. But her satisfaction
was premature.
"All the same," he went on, after a little pause, "I
still rather wish it had all ended differently."
"Differently?" Were there other endings?

"I didn't want it to end with our going to bed,"

he specified.
Lenina was astonished.

"Not at once, not the first day."
?"
"But then what
.

,

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
He began to talk a lot of incomprehensible and
dangerous nonsense. Lenina did her best to stop the
ears of her mind; but every now and then a phrase

would insist on becoming audible. ".

.

.

to try the

my impulses," she heard him say.
The words seemed to touch a spring in her mind.
effect of arresting

"Never put off till to-morrow the fun you can
have to-day," she said gravely.
"Two hundred repetitions, twice a week from
fourteen to sixteen and a half," was all his comment.
The mad bad talk rambled on. "I want to know
what passion is," she heard him saying. "I want to
feel something strongly."

"When the individual feels, the community reels,"
Lenina pronounced.
"Well, why shouldn't it reel a bit?"

"Bernard!"
But Bernard remained unabashed.
"Adults intellectually and during working hours,"
he went on. "Infants where feeling and desire are
concerned."

"Our Ford loved infants."
Ignoring the interruption, "It suddenly struck
me the other day," continued Bernard, "that it

might be possible to be an adult all the time."
"I don't understand." Lenina's tone was firm.
"I know you don't. And that's why we went
instead of
to bed together yesterday like infants

—

being adults and waiting."

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But it was fun," Lenina insisted. "Wasn't it?"
"Oh, the greatest fun," he answered, but in a
voice so mournful, with an expression so profoundly
miserable, that Lenina felt all her triumph suddenly
evaporate. Perhaps he had found her too plump,
after all.

"I told you so," was all that Fanny said, when
Lenina came and made her confidences. "It's the
alcohol they put in his surrogate."
"All the same," Lenina insisted. "I do like him.
He has such awfully nice hands. And the way he
moves his shoulders that's very attractive." She
sighed. "But I wish he weren't so odd."

—

Halting for a moment outside the door of the Director's room, Bernard drew a deep breath and squared
his shoulders, bracing himself to meet the dislike and
disapproval which he was certain of finding within.
He knocked and entered.
"A permit for you to initial, Director," he said as
airily as possible, and laid the paper on the writingtable.

The Director glanced at him sourly. But the stamp
of the World Controller's Office was at the head of
the paper

and the signature of Mustapha Mond,

bold and black, across the bottom. Everything was
perfectly in order. The Director had no choice. He

BRAVE NEW WORLD

—two small pale
abject
of Mustapha Mond —and was about to

pencilled his initials
at the feet

letters

word of comment or
genial Ford-speed, when his eye was caught by
something written in the body of the permit.
"For the New Mexican Reservation?" he said,
and his tone, the face he lifted to Bernard, expressed
return the paper without a

a kind of agitated astonishment.
Surprised by his surprise, Bernard nodded. There

was a silence.

The Director leaned back in his chair, frowning.

"How long ago was it?" he said, speaking more to
himself than to Bernard. "Twenty years, I suppose.

Nearer twenty-five. I must have been your age ..."
He sighed and shook his head.
Bernard felt extremely uncomfortable. A man so
conventional, so scrupulously correct as the Director

—and to commit so gross a solecism!

It

made him

want to hide his face, to run out of the room. Not
that he himself saw anything intrinsically objectionable in people talking about the remote past; that
was one of those hypnopaedic prejudices he had (so
he imagined) completely got rid of. What made him
feel shy was the knowledge that the Director disapproved disapproved and yet had been betrayed
into doing the forbidden thing. Under what inward
compulsion? Through his discomfort Bernard eagerly

—

listened.

"I had the same idea as you," the Director was

BRA VE NEW WORLD
"Wanted

have a look at the savages.
Got a permit for New Mexico and went there for
my summer holiday. With the girl I was having at
the moment. She was a Beta-Minus, and I think"
saying.

to

had yellow hair.
pneumatic, particularly pneu-

(he shut his eyes), "I think she

Anyhow

she was

matic; I remember that. Well, we went there, and we

looked at the savages, and we rode about on horses

and all that. And then
of my leave

—then

.

.

.

— was almost the
it

last

day

well, she got lost. We'd gone

riding up one of those revolting mountains,

and it
was horribly hot and oppressive, and after lunch we
went to sleep. Or at least I did. She must have gone
for a walk, alone. At any rate, when I woke up, she
wasn't there. And the most frightful thunderstorm
I've ever seen was just bursting on us. And it poured
and roared and flashed; and the horses broke loose
and ran away; and I fell down, trying to catch them,
and hurt my knee, so that I could hardly walk. Still,
I searched and I shouted and I searched. But there
was no sign of her. Then I thought she must have
gone back to the rest-house by herself. So I crawled
down into the valley by the way we had come. My
knee was agonizingly painful, and I'd lost my soma.
It took me hours. I didn't get back to the rest-house
till

after midnight. And she wasn't there; she wasn't

there," the Director repeated. There was a silence.

"Well," he resumed at last, "the next day there was
a search. But we couldn't find her. She must have

BRAVE NEW WORLD
a gully somewhere; or been eaten by a
mountain lion. Ford knows. Anyhow it was horrible.
It upset me very much at the time. More than it
ought to have done, I dare say. Because, after all, it's
fallen into

happened to
any one; and, of course, the social body persists although the component cells may change." But this
sleep-taught consolation did not seem to be very
effective. Shaking his head, "I actually dream about
it sometimes," the Director went on in a low voice.
"Dream of being woken up by that peal of thunder
and finding her gone; dream of searching and searching for her under the trees." He lapsed into the
the sort of accident that might have

silence of reminiscence.

"You must have had a terrible shock," said Bernard, almost enviously.

At the sound of his voice the Director started into
a guilty realization of where he was; shot a glance at
Bernard, and averting his eyes, blushed darkly;
looked at him again with sudden suspicion and,
angrily on his dignity, "Don't imagine," he said,
"that I'd had any indecorous relation with the girl.
Nothing emotional, nothing long-drawn. It was all
perfectly healthy and normal." He handed Bernard
the permit. "I really don't know why I bored you
with this trivial anecdote." Furious with himself for
having given away a discreditable secret, he vented
his rage on Bernard. The look in his eyes was now
frankly malignant.

"And I should like to take this

BRAVE NEW WORLD
opportunity, Mr. Marx," he went on, "of saying that

I'm not at all pleased with the reports I receive of
your behaviour outside working hours. You may say
that this is not my business. But it is. I have the good
name of the Centre to think of. My workers must be
above suspicion, particularly those of the highest
castes. Alphas are so conditioned that they do not
have to be infantile in their emotional behaviour.
But that is all the more reason for their making a
special effort to conform. It is their duty to be infantile, even against their inclination. And so, Mr.
Marx, I give you fair warning." The Director's voice
vibrated with an indignation that had now become
wholly righteous and impersonal was the expres-

—

sion of the disapproval of Society itself. "If ever I

hear again of any lapse from a proper standard of
infantile decorum, I shall ask for your transference to

a Sub-Centre

—preferably to Iceland. Good morn-

ing." And swivelling round in his chair, he picked up
his pen and began to write.

"That'll teach him," he said to himself. But he
was mistaken. For Bernard left the room with a
swagger, exulting, as he banged the door behind
him, in the thought that he stood alone, embattled
against the order of things; elated by the intoxicating
consciousness of his individual significance and im-

portance. Even the thought of persecution left him

undismayed, was rather tonic than depressing. He
strong enough to meet and overcome affliction,

felt

BRAVE NEW WORLD
strong enough to face even Iceland. And this confidence

was the greater for his not for a moment

really believing that he would be called upon to face

anything at all. People simply weren't transferred
A most
stimulating and life-giving threat. Walking along the
corridor, he actually whistled.
Heroic was the account he gave that evening of
his interview with the D.H.C. "Whereupon," it concluded, "I simply told him to go to the Bottomless
Past and marched out of the room. And that was
that." He looked at Helmholtz Watson expectantly,

for things like that. Iceland was just a threat.

awaiting his due reward of sympathy, encourage-

ment, admiration. But no word came. Helmholtz
sat silent, staring at the floor.

He liked Bernard; he was grateful to him for being
the only man of his acquaintance with whom he
could talk about the subjects he felt to be important.
Nevertheless, there were things in Bernard which he
hated. This boasting, for example. And the outbursts of an abject self-pity with which it alternated.

And his deplorable habit of being bold after the
event, and full, in absence, of the most extraordinary

presence of mind.

He hated these things —just be-

cause he liked Bernard. The seconds passed. Helmholtz continued to stare at the floor. And suddenly

Bernard blushed and turned away.

116

BRAVE NEW WORLD
§3
The journey was quite uneventful. The Blue Pacific
Rocket was two and a half minutes early at New
Orleans, lost four minutes in a tornado over Texas,
but flew into a favourable air current at Longitude
95 West, and was able to land at Santa Fe less than
forty seconds behind schedule time.
"Forty seconds on a six and a half hour flight. Not
so bad," Lenina conceded.
They slept that night at Santa Fe. The hotel was
excellent incomparably better, for example, than
that horrible Aurora Bora Palace in which Lenina
had suffered so much the previous summer. Liquid
air, television, vibro-vacuum massage, radio, boiling

—

and eight
on in every bedroom. The synthetic music plant was working as
they entered the hall and left nothing to be desired.
A notice in the lift announced that there were sixty
Escalator-Squash-Racquet Courts in the hotel, and
that Obstacle and Electro-magnetic Golf could both
caffeine

solution,

hot

contraceptives,

different kinds of scent were laid

be played in the park.
"But it sounds simply too lovely," cried Lenina.
"I almost wish we could stay here. Sixty EscalatorSquash Courts ..."

"There won't be any in the Reservation," Bernard
warned her. "And no scent, no television, no hot

BRAVE NEW WORLD
water even. If you feel you can't stand it, stay here
till I come back."
Lenina was quite offended. "Of course I can stand
well,
it. I only said it was lovely here because
.

.

.

because progress is lovely, isn't it?"
"Five hundred repetitions once a week from thirteen to seventeen," said Bernard wearily, as though
to himself.

"What did you say?"
"I said that progress was lovely. That's why you

mustn't come to the Reservation unless you really

want to."
"But I do want to."

"Very well, then," said Bernard; and it was almost a threat.
Their permit required the signature of the Warden
of the Reservation, at whose office next morning
they duly presented themselves. An Epsilon-Plus
negro porter took in Bernard's card, and they were
admitted almost immediately.
The Warden was a blond and brachycephalic
Alpha-Minus, short, red, moon-faced, and broadshouldered, with a loud booming voice, very well
adapted to the utterance of hypnopaedic wisdom.
He was a mine of irrelevant information and unasked-for good advice. Once started, he went on and
on boomingly.
".
five hundred and sixty thousand square
kilometres, divided into four distinct Sub-Reserva-

—

.

.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
each

tions,

surrounded

by a high-tension wire

fence."

At this moment, and for no apparent reason, Bernard suddenly remembered that he had left the Eau
de Cologne tap in his bathroom wide open and
running.

"... supplied with current from the Grand Can-

yon hydro-electric station."
"Cost me a fortune by the time I get back." With
his mind's eye, Bernard saw the needle on the scent
meter creeping round and round, antlike, indefatigably. "Quickly telephone to Helmholtz Watson."
".
upwards of five thousand kilometres of
.

.

fencing at sixty thousand volts."

"You don't say so," said Lenina politely, not
knowing in the least what the Warden had said,
but taking her cue from his dramatic pause. When
the Warden started booming, she had inconspicuously swallowed half a

gramme of soma, with the

result that she could now sit, serenely not listening,

thinking of nothing at all, but with her large blue
eyes fixed on the Warden's face in an expression of

rapt attention.

"To touch the fence is instant death," pronounced
the Warden solemnly. "There is no escape from a
Savage Reservation."
The word "escape" was suggestive. "Perhaps,"
said Bernard, half rising, "we ought to think of going." The little black needle was scurrying,

an in-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
sect, nibbling through time,

eating into his money.

"No escape," repeated the Warden, waving him
back into his chair; and as the permit was not yet
countersigned, Bernard had no choice but to obey.
"Those who are born in the Reservation and remember, my dear young lady," he added, leering
obscenely at Lenina, and speaking in an improper

—

whisper,

dren

still

"remember that, in the Reservation, chilare born, yes, actually born, revolting as

that may seem ..." (He hoped that this reference to

a shameful subject would make Lenina blush; but
she only smiled with simulated intelligence and said,

"You don't say so!" Disappointed the Warden began
again.) "Those, I repeat, who are born in the Reservation are destined to die there."

Destined to die ... A decilitre of Eau de Cologne
every minute. Six litres an hour. Perhaps," Bernard
tried again, "we ought ..."

Leaning forward, the Director tapped the table
with his forefinger. "You ask me how many people
triumphantly
live in the Reservation. And I reply"

—
—"I reply that we do not know. We can only guess."
"You don't say so."

"My dear young lady, I do say so."

—

Six times twenty-four no, it would be nearer six
times thirty-six. Bernard was pale and trembling
with impatience. But inexorably the booming continued.
". .

.

about sixty thousand Indians and half-breeds

BRA VE NEW WORLD
.

.

.

our inspectors occasionally
otherwise, no communication whatever with

absolute savages

visit

.

.

.

the civilized world
habits and customs

.

.

.

.

.

.

still

.

.

.

marriage, if you know what

preserve their repulsive

my dear young lady; families ... no con-

that is,

ditioning

.

.

.

monstrous superstitions

.

.

.

Christian-

extinct
and totemism and ancestor worship
languages, such as Zufii and Spanish and Athapaspumas, porcupines and other ferocious anican
venomous
priests
infectious diseases
mals
ity

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

lizards ..."

"You don't say so?"
They got away at last. Bernard dashed to the telephone. Quick, quick; but it took him nearly three
minutes to get on to Helmholtz Watson. "We might
be among the savages already," he complained.

"Damned incompetence!"
"Have a gramme," suggested Lenina.

He refused, preferring his anger. And at last, thank
Ford, he was through and, yes, it was Helmholtz;

Helmholtz, to whom he explained what had happened, and who promised to go round at once, at
once, and turn off the tap, yes, at once, but took this
opportunity to tell him what the D.H.C. had said,
in public, yesterday evening
.

.

.

"What? He's looking out for some one to take my
place?" Bernard's voice was agonized. "So it's ac-

Did he mention Iceland? You say
he did? Ford! Iceland ..." He hung up the receiver
tually decided?

BRAVE NEW WORLD
and turned back to Lenina. His face was pale, his
expression utterly dejected.

"What's the matter?" she asked.
"The matter?" He dropped heavily into a chair.
"I'm going to be sent to Iceland."
Often in the past he had wondered what it would
be like to be subjected {soma-\tss and with nothing
but his own inward resources to rely on) to some
great trial, some pain, some persecution; he had even
longed for affliction. As recently as a week ago, in the
Director's office, he had imagined himself courage-

ously resisting, stoically accepting suffering without

a word. The Director's threats had actually elated
him, made him feel larger than life. But that, as he
now realized, was because he had not taken the
threats quite seriously;

he had not believed

that,

when it came to the point, the D.H.G. would ever
do anything. Now that it looked as though the
threats were really to be fulfilled, Bernard was
appalled. Of that imagined stoicism, that theoretical
courage, not a trace was left.
He raged against himself what a fool! against
the Director

—
—
—how unfair not to give him that other

chance, that other chance which, he now had no

doubt at all, he had always intended to take. And
Iceland, Iceland

.

.

.

Lenina shook her head. "Was and will make me
ill," she quoted, "I take a gramme and only am."
In the end she persuaded him to swallow four

BRAVE NEW WORLD
minutes later roots and fruits
were abolished; the flower of the present rosily blostablets of soma. Five

somed. A message from the porter announced that,
at the Warden's orders, a Reservation Guard had
come round with a plane and was waiting on the
roof of the hotel. They went up at once. An octoroon
in Gamma-green uniform saluted and proceeded to
recite the morning's programme.

A bird's-eye view often or a dozen of the principal
pueblos, then a landing for lunch in the valley of

Malpais. The rest-house was comfortable there, and

up at the pueblo the savages would probably be
celebrating their summer festival. It would be the
best place to spend the night.

They took their seats in the plane and set off. Ten
minutes later they were crossing the frontier that
separated civilization from savagery. Uphill and

down,

across the deserts of salt or sand, through

the violet depth of canyons, over crag
and
table-topped mesa, the fence marched
peak
and
on and on, irresistibly the straight line, the geometrical symbol of triumphant human purpose. And at
its foot, here and there, a mosaic of white bones, a
still unrotted carcase dark on the tawny ground
marked the place where deer or steer, puma or por-

forests, into

cupine or coyote, or the greedy turkey buzzards
drawn down by the whiff of carrion and fulminated
as though by a poetic justice, had come too close to

the destroying wires.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"They never learn,"
pilot,

said

the green-uniformed

pointing down at the skeletons on the ground

below them. "And they never will learn," he added
and laughed, as though he had somehow scored a
personal triumph over the electrocuted animals.
Bernard also laughed; after two grammes of soma
the joke seemed, for some reason, good. Laughed and
then, almost immediately, dropped off to sleep, and

sleeping was carried over Taos and Tesuque; over

Nambe and Picuris and Pojoaque, over Sia and
Cochiti, over Laguna and Acoma and the Enchanted
Mesa, over Zufii and Cibola and Ojo Caliente, and
woke at last to find the machine standing on the
ground, Lenina carrying the suit-cases into a small
square house, and the Gamma-green octoroon talking incomprehensibly with a young Indian.

"Malpais," explained the pilot, as Bernard stepped
out. "This is the rest-house. And there's a dance this
afternoon at the pueblo. He'll take you there." He
pointed to the sullen young savage. "Funny, I expect." He grinned. "Everything they do is funny."
And with that he climbed into the plane and started

up the engines. "Back to-morrow. And remember,"
he added reassuringly to Lenina, "they're perfectly
tame; savages won't do you any harm. They've got
enough experience of gas bombs to know that they
mustn't play any tricks." Still laughing, he threw the
helicopter screws into gear, accelerated, and was
gone.

7S?.

r\r^«?W~>

CHAPTER SEVEN
JThe mesa was like a ship becalmed in a strait of
lion-coloured dust.

The channel wound between

precipitous banks, and slanting from one wall to the

other across the valley ran a streak of green
river and its fields.

—the

On the prow of that stone ship in

the centre of the strait, and seemingly a part of it, a
shaped and geometrical outcrop of the naked rock,
stood the pueblo of Malpais. Block above block, each
story smaller than the one below, the tall houses
rose like stepped and amputated pyramids into the
blue sky. At their feet lay a straggle of low buildings,

a criss-cross of walls; and on three sides the precipices
fell sheer into the plain. A few columns of smoke

mounted perpendicularly into the windless air and
were lost.
"Queer," said Lenina. "Very queer." It was her
ordinary word of condemnation. "I don't like it.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
And I don't like that man." She pointed to the
Indian guide who had been appointed to take them
up to the pueblo. Her feeling was evidently reciprocated; the very back of the man, as he walked along
before them, was hostile, sullenly contemptuous.

"Besides," she lowered her voice, "he smells."

Bernard did not attempt to deny it. They walked
on.

Suddenly it was as though the whole air had come
alive and were pulsing, pulsing with the indefatiga-

ble movement of blood.

Up there, in Malpais, the

drums were being beaten. Their feet fell in with the
rhythm of that mysterious heart; they quickened
their pace. Their path led them to the foot of the
precipice. The sides of the great mesa ship towered
over them, three hundred feet to the gunwale.
"I wish we could have brought the plane," said
Lenina, looking up resentfully at the blank impending rock-face. "I hate walking. And you feel so small
when you're on the ground at the bottom of a hill."

They walked along for some way in the shadow of
the mesa, rounded a projection, and there, in a
water-worn ravine, was the way up the companion
ladder. They climbed. It was a very steep path that

zigzagged from side to side of the gully. Sometimes
the pulsing of the drums was all but inaudible, at
others they seemed to be beating only just round the
corner.

When they were half-way up, an eagle flew past

BRAVE NEW WORLD
them that the wind of his wings blew
on their faces. In a crevice of the rock lay a
pile of bones. It was all oppressively queer, and the
Indian smelt stronger and stronger. They emerged
at last from the ravine into the full sunlight. The top
of the mesa was a flat deck of stone.
"Like the Charing-T Tower," was Lenina's comment. But she was not allowed to enjoy her discovery
of this reassuring resemblance for long. A padding
of soft feet made them turn round. Naked from
throat to navel, their dark brown bodies painted
with white lines ("like asphalt tennis courts," Lenina
was later to explain), their faces inhuman with
daubings of scarlet, black and ochre, two Indians
came running along the path. Their black hair was
braided with fox fur and red flannel. Cloaks of
turkey feathers fluttered from their shoulders; huge
feather diadems exploded gaudily round their heads.
With every step they took came the clink and rattle
of their silver bracelets, their heavy necklaces of bone
and turquoise beads. They came on without a word,
so close to
chill

running quietly in their deerskin moccasins. One of
them was holding a feather brush; the other carried,
in either hand, what looked at a distance like three
or four pieces of thick rope. One of the ropes writhed
uneasily, and suddenly Lenina saw that they were
snakes.

The men came nearer and nearer; their dark eyes
looked at her, but without giving any sign of recogni-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
any smallest sign that they had seen her or
were aware of her existence. The writhing snake
hung limp again with the rest. The men passed.
tion,

"I don't like it," said Lenina. "I don't like it."

She liked even less what awaited her at the entrance to the pueblo, where their guide had left them

The dirt, to

while he went inside for instructions.

start with, the piles of rubbish, the dust, the dogs, the

Her face wrinkled up into a grimace of disgust.
She held her handkerchief to her nose.
"But how can they live like this?" she broke out in

flies.

a voice of indignant incredulity. (It wasn't possible.)
Bernard shrugged his shoulders philosophically.
"Anyhow," he said, "they've been doing it for the
last five or six thousand years. So I suppose they

must be used to it by now."
"But cleanliness is next to fordliness," she insisted.
"Yes, and civilization is sterilization," Bernard
went on, concluding on a tone of irony the second
hypnopaedic lesson in elementary hygiene. "But these
people have never heard of Our Ford, and they
."
aren't civilized. So there's no point in
"Oh!" She gripped his arm. "Look."
An almost naked Indian was very slowly climbing
down the ladder from the first-floor terrace of a
neighbouring house rung after rung, with the
tremulous caution of extreme old age. His face was
profoundly wrinkled and black, like a mask of
obsidian. The toothless mouth had fallen in. At the
.

—

.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
corners of the lips, and on each side of the chin, a few

long bristles gleamed almost white against the dark
skin.

The long unbraided hair hung down in grey

wisps round his face. His body was bent and emaci-

ated to the bone, almost fleshless. Very slowly he
came down, pausing at each rung before he ventured

another step.

"What's the matter with him?" whispered Lenina.
Her eyes were wide with horror and amazement.
"He's old, that's all," Bernard answered as carelessly as he could. He too was startled; but he made

an effort to seem unmoved.
"Old?" she repeated. "But the Director's

old;

lots of people are old; they're not like that."

"That's because we don't allow them to be like
We preserve them from diseases. We keep their

that.

internal secretions artificially balanced at a youthful

equilibrium.

We don't permit their magnesium-

calcium ratio to fall below what it was at thirty.

We give them transfusion of young blood. We keep
their

metabolism permanently stimulated. So, of

course, they don't look like that. Partly," he added,

"because most of them die long before they reach
this old creature's age. Youth almost unimpaired till
sixty, and then, crack! the end."

But Lenina was not listening. She was watching
the old man. Slowly, slowly he came down. His feet
touched the ground. He turned. In their deepsunken orbits his eyes were still extraordinarily

BRAVE NEW WORLD
They looked at her for a long moment exwithout surprise, as though she had
not been there at all. Then slowly, with bent back,
the old man hobbled past them and was gone.
bright.

pressionlessly,

"But it's terrible," Lenina whispered. "It's awful.

We ought not to have come here." She felt in her
pocket for her soma

—only to discover

unprecedented oversight, she had

that, by some

left

the bottle

down at the rest-house. Bernard's pockets were also
empty.
Lenina was left to face the horrors of Malpais
unaided. They came crowding in on her thick and

The spectacle of two young women giving the
breast to their babies made her blush and turn away

fast.

her face. She had never seen anything so indecent in
her life. And what made it worse was that, instead of
tactfully ignoring

it,

Bernard proceeded to make

open comments on this revoltingly viviparous scene.
Ashamed, now that the effects of the soma had worn
off, of the weakness he had displayed that morning in
the hotel, he went out of his way to show himself
strong and unorthodox.

"What a wonderfully intimate relationship," he
said, deliberately outrageous. "And what an intensity of feeling it must generate! I often think one

may

have missed something in not having had a mother.
And perhaps you've missed something in not being
a mother, Lenina. Imagine yourself sitting there with
a little baby of your own. ..."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Bernard! How can you?" The passage of an old
woman with ophthalmia and a disease of the skin
distracted her from her indignation.
"Let's go away," she begged. "I don't like it."

But at this moment their guide came back and,
beckoning to them to follow, led the way down the
narrow street between the houses. They rounded
a corner. A dead dog was lying on a rubbish heap;
a woman with a goitre was looking for lice in the
hair of a small girl. Their guide halted at the foot
of a ladder, raised his hand perpendicularly, then
darted it horizontally forward. They did what
he mutely commanded climbed the ladder and
walked through the doorway, to which it gave access,
into a long narrow room, rather dark and smelling
of smoke and cooked grease and long-worn, longunwashed clothes. At the further end of the room
was another doorway, through which came a shaft
of sunlight and the noise, very loud and close, of the
drums.
They stepped across the threshold and found
themselves on a wide terrace. Below them, shut in

—

by the tall houses, was the village square, crowded
with Indians. Bright blankets, and feathers in black
hair, and the glint of turquoise, and dark skins shining with heat. Lenina put her handkerchief to her

nose again. In the open space at the centre of the

square were two circular platforms of masonry and

trampled clay

—the

roofs, it was evident,

of under-

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
ground chambers; for in the centre of each platform
was an open hatchway, with a ladder emerging from
the lower darkness. A sound of subterranean flute
playing came up and was almost lost in the steady
remorseless persistence of the drums.

Lenina liked the drums. Shutting her eyes she

abandoned herself to their soft repeated thunder,
allowed it to invade her consciousness more and
more completely, till at last there was nothing left
in the world but that one deep pulse of sound. It

reminded her reassuringly of the synthetic noises
made at Solidarity Services and Ford's Day celebrations. "Orgy-porgy," she whispered to herself.
These drums beat out just the same rhythms.
There was a sudden startling burst of singing
hundreds of male voices crying out fiercely in harsh
metallic unison. A few long notes and silence, the
thunderous silence of the drums; then shrill, in a
neighing treble, the women's answer. Then again
the drums; and once more the men's deep savage
affirmation of their manhood.
Queer yes. The place was queer, so was the
music, so were the clothes and the goitres and the
skin diseases and the old people. But the performance itself there seemed to be nothing specially
queer about that.

—

—

"It reminds

me of a lower-caste Community

Sing," she told Bernard.

But a little later it was reminding her a good deal

BRAVE NEW WORLD
less

of that innocuous function. For suddenly there

had swarmed up from those round chambers underground a ghastiy troop of monsters. Hideously
masked or painted out of all semblance of humanity,
they had tramped out a strange limping dance round
the square; round and again round, singing as they
went, round and round each time a little faster;
and the drums had changed and quickened their
rhythm, so that it became like the pulsing of fever
in the ears; and the crowd had begun to sing with the
dancers, louder and louder; and first one woman had
shrieked, and then another and another, as though
they were being killed; and then suddenly the leader
of the dancers broke out of the line, ran to a big
wooden chest which was standing at one end of the
square, raised the lid and pulled out a pair of black
snakes. A great yell went up from the crowd, and all
the other dancers ran towards him with outstretched

—

hands. He tossed the snakes to the first-comers, then

dipped back into the chest for more. More and more,
black snakes and brown and mottled he flung them
out. And then the dance began again on a different
rhythm. Round and round they went with their
snakes, snakily, with a soft undulating movement at

—

the knees

and hips. Round and round. Then the

leader gave a signal, and one after another, all the

snakes were flung down in the middle of the square;

an old man came up from underground and sprinkled them with corn meal, and from the other

BRAVE NEW WORLD
hatchway came a woman and sprinkled them with
water from a black jar. Then the old man lifted his
hand and, startlingly, terrifyingly, there was absolute silence. The drums stopped beating, life seemed
to have come to an end. The old man pointed
towards the two hatchways that gave entrance to
the lower world. And slowly, raised by invisible hands
from below, there emerged from the one a painted
image of an eagle, from the other that of a man,
naked, and nailed to a cross. They hung there, seemingly self-sustained, as though watching. The old

man clapped his hands. Naked but for a white cotton
boy of about eighteen stepped out
of the crowd and stood before him, his hands crossed
over his chest, his head bowed. The old man made
the sign of the cross over him and turned away.
Slowly, the boy began to walk round the writhing
heap of snakes. He had completed the first circuit
and was half-way through the second when, from
among the dancers, a tall man wearing the mask of a
coyote and holding in his hand a whip of plaited
leather, advanced towards him. The boy moved on
as though unaware of the other's existence. The
coyote-man raised his whip; there was a long moment of expectancy, then a swift movement, the
whistle of the lash and its loud flat-sounding impact
on the flesh. The boy's body quivered; but he made
no sound, he walked on at the same slow, steady
pace. The coyote struck again, again; and at every
breech-cloth, a

BRA VE NEW WORLD
blow at first a gasp, and then a deep groan went up
from the crowd. The boy walked on. Twice, thrice,
four times round he went. The blood was streaming.
Five times round, six times round. Suddenly Lenina
covered her face with her hands and began to sob.
"Oh, stop them, stop them!" she implored. But the
whip fell and fell inexorably. Seven times round.
Then all at once the boy staggered and, still without
a sound, pitched forward on to his face. Bending over
him, the old man touched his back with a long white
feather, held it up for a moment, crimson, for the
people to see, then shook it thrice over the snakes. A
few drops fell, and suddenly the drums broke out
again into a panic of hurrying notes; there was a
great shout. The dancers rushed forward, picked up
the snakes and ran out of the square. Men, women,
children, all the crowd ran after them. A minute
later the square was empty, only the boy remained,
prone where he had fallen, quite still. Three old
women came out of one of the houses, and with some
difficulty lifted

him and carried him in. The eagle

and the man on the cross kept guard for a little while
over the empty pueblo; then, as though they had
seen enough, sank slowly down through their hatch-

ways, out of sight, into the nether world.
Lenina was still sobbing. "Too awful," she kept
repeating,
vain.

and

"Too

all

awful!

Bernard's consolations were in
That blood!" She shuddered.

"Oh, I wish I had my soma."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
There was the sound of feet in the inner room.
Lenina did not move, but sat with her face in
her hands, unseeing, apart. Only Bernard turned
round.

The dress of the young man who now stepped out
on to the terrace was Indian; but his plaited hair
was straw-coloured, his eyes a pale blue, and his skin
a white skin, bronzed.
"Hullo. Good-morrow,"

said

the

stranger,

in

but peculiar English. "You're civilized,
aren't you? You come from the Other Place, outside
the Reservation?"
?" Bernard began in astonish"Who on earth

faultless

.

.

.

ment.

The young man sighed and shook his head. "A
most unhappy gentleman." And, pointing to the
bloodstains in the centre of the square, "Do you see
that damned spot?" he asked in a voice that trembled with emotion.
"A gramme is better than a damn," said Lenina
mechanically from behind her hands. "I wish I
had my soma!"
"I ought to have been there," the young man
went on. "Why wouldn't they let me be the sacrifice?
twelve, fifteen.
I'd have gone round ten times
Palowhtiwa only got as far as seven. They could have
had twice as much blood from me. The multitudinous seas incarnadine." He flung out his arms in a

—

lavish gesture; then, despairingly, let them fall again.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But they wouldn't let me. They disliked me for my
It's always been like that. Always."
Tears stood in the young man's eyes; he was ashamed
and turned away.
Astonishment made Lenina forget the deprivation
of soma. She uncovered her face and, for the first
time, looked at the stranger. "Do you mean to
say that you wanted to be hit with that whip?"
Still averted from her, the young man made a sign
of affirmation. "For the sake of the pueblo to make
complexion.

—

come and the corn grow. And to please
Pookong and Jesus. And then to show that I can bear

the rain

pain without crying out. Yes," and his voice sud-

denly took on a new resonance, he turned with a

proud squaring of the shoulders, a proud, defiant

man
Oh!"
He gave a gasp and was silent, gaping. He had seen,

lifting of the chin, "to show that I'm a

.

.

.

for the first time in his life, the face of a girl whose

cheeks were not the colour of chc colate or dogskin,
whose hair was auburn and p ^manently waved,
and whose expression (amazir s novelty!) was one
of benevolent inters _. Lenina was smiling at him;
such a nice-looking boy, she was thinking, and a
really beautiful body. The blood rushed up into the

young man's face; he dropped his eyes, raised them
again for a moment only to find her still smiling at

him, and was so much overcome that he had to turn

away and pretend to be looking very hard at something on the other side of the square.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Bernard's questions made a diversion. Who? How?
When? From where? Keeping his eyes fixed on
Bernard's face (for so passionately did he long to see

Lenina smiling that he simply dared not look at her),
the young man tried to explain himself. Linda and
he Linda was his mother (the word made Lenina
look uncomfortable) were strangers in the Reservation. Linda had come from the Other Place long
ago, before he was born, with a man who was his
father. (Bernard pricked up his ears.) She had gone
walking alone in those mountains over there to the
North, had fallen down a steep place and hurt her
head. ("Go on, go on," said Bernard excitedly.)
Some hunters from Malpais had found her and
brought her to the pueblo. As for the man who was
his father, Linda had never seen him again. His name
was Tomakin. (Yes, "Thomas" was the D.H.C.'s
first name.) He must have flown away, back to the
Other Place, away without her a bad, unkind,

—

—

—

unnatural man.

"And so I was born in Malpais," he concluded.
"In Malpais." And he shook his head.

The squalor of that little house on the outskirts
of the pueblo!
A space of dust and rubbish separated it from the
village. Two famine-stricken dogs were nosing obscenely in the garbage at its door. Inside, when they

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
entered,

the

twilight

stank

and was loud with

flies.

"Linda!" the young man called.

From the inner room a rather hoarse female voice
said,

"Coming."

They waited. In bowls on the floor were the remains of a meal, perhaps of several meals.
The door opened. A very stout blonde squaw
stepped across the threshold and stood looking at
the strangers, staring incredulously, her mouth open.

Lenina noticed with disgust that two of the front
teeth were missing. And the colour of the ones that
She shuddered. It was worse than the
remained
old man. So fat. And all the lines in her face, the
.

.

.

And the sagging cheeks,
with those purplish blotches. And the red veins on
her nose, the bloodshot eyes. And that neck —that

flabbiness, the wrinkles.

neck; and the blanket she wore over her head

ragged and filthy. And under the brown sack-shaped
tunic those enormous breasts, the bulge of the stomach, the hips. Oh, much worse than the old man,
much worse And suddenly the creature burst out in
a torrent of speech, rushed at her with outstretched
arms and Ford! Ford! it was too revolting, in another moment she'd be sick pressed her against
the bulge, the bosom, and began to kiss her. Ford!
!

—

—

to

kiss,

slobberingly,

and smelt too horrible, obvi-

ously never had a bath, and simply reeked of that
beastly stuff that

was put into Delta and Epsilon

BRAVE NEW WORLD
bottles (no, it wasn't true about Bernard), positively

stank of alcohol. She broke away as quickly as she
could.

A blubbered and distorted face confronted her;
the creature was crying.

"Oh, my dear, my dear." The torrent of words
flowed sobbingly. "If you knew how glad after all
these years! A civilized face. Yes, and civilized

—

clothes. Because I thought I should never see a piece

of real acetate silk again." She fingered the sleeve of

Lenina's

shirt.

The nails were black. "And those

adorable viscose velveteen shorts

!

Do you know, dear,

I've still got

my old clothes, the ones I came in, put

away in a

box.

I'll

show them you afterwards.

Though, of course, the acetate has all gone into holes.
But such a lovely white bandolier though I must
say your green morocco is even lovelier. Not that it
did me much good, that bandolier." Her tears began
to flow again. "I suppose John told you. What I had
and not a gramme of soma to be had. Only
to suffer
a drink of mescal every now and then, when Pope
used to bring it. Pope is a boy I used to know. But it
makes you feel so bad afterwards, the mescal does,
and you're sick with the peyotl; besides it always
made that awful feeling of being ashamed much

—

—

worse the next day. And I was so ashamed. Just
think of it: me, a Beta having a baby: put yourself
in my place." (The mere suggestion made Lenina
shudder.) "Though it wasn't my fault, I swear; be-

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
cause I still don't know how it happened, seeing that

—

did all the Malthusian Drill you know, by numbers, One, two, three, four, always, I swear it; but
I

all the same it happened; and of course there wasn't

anything like an Abortion Centre here. Is it still down
in Chelsea, by the way?" she asked. Lenina nodded.

"And still floodlighted on Tuesdays and Fridays?"
Lenina nodded again. "That lovely pink glass
tower!" Poor Linda lifted her face and with closed
eyes ecstatically contemplated the bright remembered image. "And the river at night," she whispered. Great tears oozed slowly out from between
her tight-shut eyelids. "And flying back in the evening from Stoke Poges. And then a hot bath and
But there." She drew
vibro-vacuum massage
a deep breath, shook her head, opened her eyes
again, sniffed once or twice, then blew her nose on
her fingers and wiped them on the skirt of her tunic.
"Oh, I'm so sorry," she said in response to Lenina's
involuntary grimace of disgust. "I oughtn't to have
done that. I'm sorry. But what are you to do when
there aren't any handkerchiefs? I remember how it
used to upset me, all that dirt, and nothing being
aseptic. I had an awful cut on my head when they
first brought me here. You can't imagine what they
used to put on it. Filth, just filth. 'Civilization
Sterilization,' I used to say to them. And
is
'Streptocock-Gee to Banbury-T, to see a fine bathas though they were children. But
room and
.

W.C

.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
of course they didn't understand. How should they?

And in the end I suppose I got used to it. And anyhow, how can you keep things clean when there isn't
hot water laid on? And look at these clothes. This
beastly wool isn't like acetate. It lasts and lasts. And
you're supposed to mend it if it gets torn. But I'm
a Beta; I worked in the Fertilizing Room; nobody
ever taught me to do anything like that. It wasn't my
business. Besides, it never used to be right to mend
clothes.

Throw them away when they've got holes

in them and buy new. 'The more stitches, the less

Mending's anti-social. But
it's all different here. It's like living with lunatics.
Everything they do is mad." She looked round; saw
John and Bernard had left them and were walking
up and down in the dust and garbage outside the
house; but, none the less confidentially lowering her
voice, and leaning, while Lenina stiffened and
shrank, so close that the blown reek of embryopoison stirred the hair on her cheek. "For instance,"
she hoarsely whispered, "take the way they have one
riches.' Isn't that right?

another here. Mad,

I

tell

you,

absolutely

Everybody belongs to every one else

mad.

—don't they?

don't they?" she insisted, tugging at Lenina's sleeve.

Lenina nodded her averted head, let out the breath
she had been holding and managed to draw another
one, relatively untainted. "Well, here," the other

went on, "nobody's supposed to belong to more than
one person. And if you have people in the ordinary

BRAVE NEW WORLD
way, the others think you're wicked and anti-social.
They hate and despise you. Once a lot of women
came and made a scene because their men came to
see me. Well, why not? And then they rushed at
No, it was too awful. I can't tell you about it."
me
Linda covered her face with her hands and shuddered. "They're so hateful, the women here. Mad,
.

.

.

mad and cruel. And of course they don't know anything about Malthusian Drill, or bottles, or decanting, or anything of that sort. So they're having chil-

dren all the time

—

to think that I .

.

.

And
Oh, Ford, Ford, Ford! And yet

like dogs. It's too revolting.

John was a great comfort to me. I don't know what I
should have done without him. Even though he did
get so upset whenever a man

Quite as a tiny boy,
even. Once (but that was when he was bigger) he
tried to kill poor Waihusiwa
or was it Pope?—just
because I used to have them sometimes. Because I
never could make him understand that that was what
civilized people ought to do. Being mad's infectious,
I believe. Anyhow, John seems to have caught it
from the Indians. Because, of course, he was with
them a lot. Even though they always were so beastly
to him and wouldn't let him do all the things the
other boys did. Which was a good thing in a way,
because it made it easier for me to condition him a
little. Though you've no idea how difficult that is.
There's so much one doesn't know; it wasn't my
business to know. I mean, when a child asks you how
.

.

—

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
a helicopter works or who made the world

—well,

what are you to answer
a Beta and have
always worked in the Fertilizing Room? What are
you to answer?"
if you're

144

rv^i#^vn

CHAPTER EIGHT
Outside, in the dust and among the garbage (there
were four dogs now), Bernard and John were walking slowly up and down.
"So hard for me to realize," Bernard was saying,
"to reconstruct. As though we were living on different planets, in different centuries. A mother, and all
this dirt,

and gods, and old age, and disease ..."

He shook his head. "It's almost inconceivable. I shall
never understand unless you explain."
"Explain what?"
"This." He indicated the pueblo. "That."
it

And

was the little house outside the village. "Every-

thing. All your life."

"But what is there to say?"
"From the beginning. As far back
remember."

as

you can

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"As far back as I can remember." John frowned.
There was a long silence.

It was very hot. They had eaten a lot of tortillas
and sweet corn. Linda said, "Come and lie down,
Baby." They lay down together in the big bed.
"Sing," and Linda sang. Sang "Streptocock-Gee
to Banbury-T" and "Bye Baby Banting, soon you'll
need decanting." Her voice got fainter and fainter
There was a loud noise, and he woke with a start.
A man was standing by the bed, enormous, frightening. He was saying something to Linda, and Linda
was laughing. She had pulled the blanket up to her
chin, but the man pulled it down again. His hair was
like two black ropes, and round his arm was a lovely
.

.

with blue stones in it. He liked the
bracelet; but all the same, he was frightened; he hid
his face against Linda's body. Linda put her hand on
him and he felt safer. In those other words he did not
understand so well, she said to the man, "Not with
John here." The man looked at him, then again at
silver bracelet

Linda, and said a few words in a soft voice. Linda
said, "No." But the man bent over the bed towards

him and his face was huge, terrible; the black ropes
of hair touched the blanket. "No," Linda said again,

and he felt her hand squeezing him more tightly.
"No, no!" But the man took hold of one of his arms,
and it hurt. He screamed. The man put up his other

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
hand and lifted him up. Linda was still holding him,
"No, no." The man said something short
and angry, and suddenly her hands were gone.
"Linda, Linda." He kicked and wriggled; but the
man carried him across to the door, opened it, put
him down on the floor in the middle of the other
room, and went away, shutting the door behind him.
He got up, he ran to the door. Standing on tiptoe he
could just reach the big wooden latch. He lifted it
and pushed; but the door wouldn't open. "Linda,"
he shouted. She didn't answer.
still saying

He remembered a huge room, rather dark; and
there were big wooden things with strings fastened
to them, and lots of women standing round them

making blankets, Linda said. Linda told him to sit in
the corner with the other children, while she went
and helped the women. He played with the little
boys for a long time. Suddenly people started talking
very loud, and there were the women pushing Linda

away, and Linda was crying. She went to the door
and he ran after her. He asked her why they were
angry. "Because I broke something," she said. And
then she got angry too. "How should I know how to
do their beastly weaving?" she said. "Beastly savages." He asked her what savages were. When they

got back to their house,

Pope was waiting at the

door, and he came in with them. He had a big gourd

BRAVE NEW WORLD
full

of stuff that looked like water; only it wasn't

water, but something with a bad smell that burnt

your mouth and made you cough. Linda drank some
and Pope drank some, and then Linda laughed a
lot and talked very loud; and then she and Pope
went into the other room. When Pope went away,
he went into the room. Linda was in bed and so fast
asleep that he couldn't wake her.
Pope used to come often. He said the stuff in the
gourd was called mescal; but Linda said it ought
to be called soma; only it made you feel ill afterwards.
He hated Pope. He hated them all all the men who
came to see Linda. One afternoon, when he had
been playing with the other children it was cold,
he remembered, and there was snow on the mounhe came back to the house and heard angry
tains
voices in the bedroom. They were women's voices,
and they said words he didn't understand; but he
knew they were dreadful words. Then suddenly,
crash! something was upset; he heard people moving
about quickly, and there was another crash and then
a noise like hitting a mule, only not so bony; then

—

—

—

Linda screamed. "Oh, don't, don't, don't!" she said.
He ran in. There were three women in dark blankets.
Linda was on the bed. One of the women was holding her wrists. Another was lying across her legs, so
that she couldn't kick. The third was hitting her with
a whip. Once, twice, three times; and each time
Linda screamed. Crying, he tugged at the fringe of

BRA VE NEW WORLD
the woman's blanket. "Please, please." With her free

hand she held him away. The whip came down again,
and again Linda screamed. He caught hold of the
woman's enormous brown hand between his own and
bit it with all his might. She cried out, wrenched her
hand free, and gave him such a push that he fell
down. While he was lying on the ground she hit him
three times with the whip. It hurt more than anything he had ever felt like fire. The whip whistled
again, fell. But this time it was Linda who screamed.
"But why did they want to hurt you, Linda?" he
asked that night. He was crying, because the red
marks of the whip on his back still hurt so terribly. But
he was also crying because people were so beastly
and unfair, and because he was only a little boy and
couldn't do anything against them. Linda was crying
too. She was grown up, but she wasn't big enough to

—

fight against three of them. It wasn't fair for her
either.

"Why did they want to hurt you, Linda?"

"I don't know. How should I know?" It was difficult to hear what she said, because she was lying on

her stomach and her face was in the pillow. "They
say those men are their men," she went on; and she

did not seem to be talking to him at all; she seemed
to be talking with some one inside herself.

A long talk

which she didn't understand; and in the end she
started crying louder than ever.

"Oh, don't cry, Linda. Don't cry."

He pressed himself against her. He put his arm

BRAVE NEW WORLD
round her neck. Linda cried out. "Oh, be careful.
My shoulder! Oh!" and she pushed him away, hard.
His head banged against the wall. "Little idiot!" she
shouted; and then, suddenly, she began to slap him.
Slap, slap

.

.

.

"Linda," he cried out. "Oh, mother, don't!"
"I'm not your mother. I won't be your mother."
"But, Linda
Oh!" She slapped him on the
.

.

.

cheek.

"Turned into a savage," she shouted. "Having
young ones like an animal ... If it hadn't been for
you, I might have gone to the Inspector, I might

have got away. But not with a baby. That would have
been too shameful."
He saw that she was going to hit him again, and
lifted his arm to guard his face. "Oh, don't, Linda,
please don't."
"Little beast!" She pulled down his arm; his face

was uncovered.
"Don't, Linda." He shut his eyes, expecting the
blow.

But she didn't hit him. After a little time, he
opened his eyes again and saw that she was looking
at him. He tried to smile at her. Suddenly she put her
arms round him and kissed him again and again.

Sometimes, for several days, Linda didn't get up
at all. She lay in bed and was sad. Or else she drank

BRAVE NEW WORLD
the stuff that Pope brought and laughed a great deal

and went to sleep. Sometimes she was sick. Often she
and there was nothing to eat
except cold tortillas. He remembered the first time

forgot to wash him,

she found those little animals in his hair,

how she

screamed and screamed.

The happiest times were when she told him about
the Other Place. "And you really can go flying,
whenever you like?"
"Whenever you like." And she would tell him
about the lovely music that came out of a box, and
all the nice games you could play, and the delicious
things to eat and drink, and the light that came when
you pressed a little thing in the wall, and the pictures
that you could hear and feel and smell, as well as
see, and another box for making nice smells, and the
pink and green and blue and silver houses as high as
mountains, and everybody happy and no one ever
sad or angry, and every one belonging to every one
else, and the boxes where you could see and hear
what was happening at the other side of the world,
and babies in lovely clean bottles everything so
clean, and no nasty smells, no dirt at all
and people
never lonely, but living together and being so jolly
and happy, like the summer dances here in Malpais,
but much happier, and the happiness being there
every day, every day.
He listened by the hour.

—

.

.

.

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
And sometimes, when he and the other children were
tired with too much playing, one of the old men of
the pueblo would talk to them, in those other words,

of the great Transformer of the World, and of the

long fight between Right Hand and Left Hand, between Wet and Dry; of Awonawilona, who made
a great fog by thinking in the night, and then made
the whole world out of the fog; of Earth Mother and

Sky Father; of Ahaiyuta and Marsailema, the twins
of War and Chance; of Jesus and Pookong; of Mary
and Etsanatlehi, the woman who makes herself
young again; of the Black Stone at Laguna and the
Great Eagle and Our Lady of Acoma. Strange
stories, all the more wonderful to him for being told
in the other words and so not fully understood. Lying
in bed, he would think of Heaven and London and
Our Lady of Acoma and the rows and rows of babies
in clean bottles and Jesus flying up and Linda flying
up and the great Director of World Hatcheries and
Awonawilona.

Lots of men came to see Linda. The boys began
to point their fingers at him. In the strange other

words they said that Linda was bad; they called
her names he did not understand, but that he knew
were bad names. One day they sang a song about
her, again and again. He threw stones at them. They

BRAVE NEW WORLD
threw back; a sharp stone cut his cheek. The blood
wouldn't stop; he was covered with blood.

Linda taught him to read. With a piece of charcoal
an animal sitting
down, a baby inside a bottle; then she wrote letters.
The Cat is on the Mat. The Tot is in the Pot.
He learned quickly and easily. When he knew how
to read all the words she wrote on the wall, Linda
opened her big wooden box and pulled out from
under those funny little red trousers she never wore
a thin little book. He had often seen it before. "When
you're bigger," she had said, "you can read it."
Well, now he was big enough. He was proud. "I'm
afraid you won't find it very exciting," she said.
"But it's the only thing I have." She sighed. "If only
you could see the lovely reading machines we used to
have in London!" He began reading. The Chemical
she drew pictures on the wall

—

and Bacteriological Conditioning of the Embryo. Practical
Instructions for Beta Embryo-Store Workers. It took him

a quarter of an hour to read the title alone. He threw
the book on the floor. "Beastly, beastly book!" he
said,

and began to cry.

The boys still sang their horrible song about Linda.
Sometimes, too, they laughed at him for being

BRAVE NEW WORLD
so ragged. When he tore his clothes, Linda did not

know how to mend them. In the Other Place, she
told him, people threw away clothes with holes in
them and got new ones. "Rags, rags!" the boys used
to shout at him. "But I can read," he said to himself,

"and they can't. They don't even know what reading is." It was fairly easy, if he thought hard enough
about the reading, to pretend that he didn't mind
when they made fun of him. He asked Linda to give
him the book again.
The more the boys pointed and sang, the harder
he read. Soon he could read all the words quite well.
Even the longest. But what did they mean? He asked
Linda; but even when she could answer it didn't
seem to make it very clear. And generally she
couldn't answer at all.

"What are chemicals?" he would ask.
"Oh, stuff like magnesium salts, and alcohol for
keeping the Deltas and Epsilons small and backward, and calcium carbonate for bones, and all that
sort of thing."

"But how do you make chemicals, Linda? Where
do they come from?"
"Well, I don't know. You get them out of bottles.
And when the bottles are empty, you send up to the
Chemical Store for more. It's the Chemical Store
people who make them, I suppose. Or else they send
to the factory for them. I don't know. I never did any
chemistry. My job was always with the embryos."

BRAVE MEW WORLD
was the same with everything else he asked
about. Linda never seemed to know. The old men
of the pueblo had much more definite answers.
"The seed of men and all creatures, the seed of
the sun and the seed of earth and the seed of the
sky Awonawilona made them all out of the Fog
of Increase. Now the world has four wombs; and he
laid the seeds in the lowest of the four wombs. And
."
gradually the seeds began to grow
It

—

.

.

One day (John calculated later that it must have
been soon after his twelfth birthday) he came home
and found a book that he had never seen before lying
on the floor in the bedroom. It was a thick book and
looked very old. The binding had been eaten by
mice; some of its pages were loose and crumpled.
He picked it up, looked at the title-page: the book
was called The Complete Works of William Shakespeare.

Linda was lying on the bed, sipping that horrible
"Pope brought it," she
said. Her voice was thick and hoarse like somebody
else's voice. "It was lying in one of the chests of the
Antelope Kiva. It's supposed to have been there for
hundreds of years. I expect it's true, because I looked
at it, and it seemed to be full of nonsense. Uncivilized. Still, it'll be good enough for you to practise
your reading on." She took a last sip, set the cup
stinking mescal out of a cup.

^^^^

'

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
down on the floor beside the bed, turned over on her
side, hiccoughed once or twice and went to sleep.

He opened the book at random.
Nay, but to live
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,

Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love

Over the nasty sty

.

.

.

The strange words rolled through his mind; rumdrums at the
drums
could
have spoken;
summer dances,
like the men singing the Corn Song, beautiful,
beautiful, so that you cried; like old Mitsima saying
magic over his feathers and his carved sticks and his
kiathla tsilu silokwe silokwe
bits of bone and stone
bled, like talking thunder; like the
if the

silokwe. Kiai silu silu, tsithl

—but better than Mitsima's

magic, because it meant more, because it talked to
him; talked wonderfully and only half-understandably,

a

terrible

beautiful

magic,

about

Linda;

about Linda lying there snoring, with the empty cup

on the floor beside the bed; about Linda and Pope,
Linda and Pope.

He hated Pope more and more. A man can smile
and smile and be a villain. Remorseless, treacherous,
lecherous, kindless villain.

What did the words ex-

actly mean? He only half knew. But their magic was

BRAVE NEW WORLD
strong and went on rumbling in his head, and some-

how it was as though he had never really hated
Pope before; never really hated him because he had
never been able to say how much he hated him.
But now he had these words, these words like drums
and singing and magic. These words and the strange,
strange story out of which they were taken (he
couldn't make head or tail of it, but it was wonderful, wonderful all the same)
they gave him a
reason for hating Pope; and they made his hatred
more real; they even made Pope himself more

—

real.

One day, when he came in from playing, the door
of the inner room was open, and he saw them lying
together on the bed, asleep

—white Linda and Pope

almost black beside her, with one arm under her
shoulders and the other dark hand on her breast,

and one of the plaits of his long hair lying across her
throat, like a black snake trying to strangle her.

Pope's gourd and a cup were standing on the floor

near the bed. Linda was snoring.

His heart seemed to have disappeared and

left

a hole. He was empty. Empty, and cold, and rather
sick, and giddy.

himself.

He leaned against the wall to steady

Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous

.

.

.

Like drums, like the men singing for the corn, like
magic, the words repeated and repeated themselves

From being cold he was suddenly hot.
His cheeks burnt with the rush of blood, the room
in his head.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
swam and darkened before his eyes. He ground his
teeth. "I'll kill him,

I'll kill

him, I'll kill him," he

kept saying. And suddenly there were more words.

When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed

.

.

.

The magic was on his side, the magic explained and
gave orders. He stepped back into the outer room.
"When he is drunk asleep ..." The knife for the
meat was lying on the floor near the fireplace. He
picked it up and tiptoed to the door again. "When
he is drunk asleep, drunk asleep ..." He ran across
the room and stabbed oh, the blood! stabbed
again, as Pope heaved out of his sleep, lifted his hand
to stab once more, but found his wrist caught, held
and oh, oh! twisted. He couldn't move, he was
trapped, and there were Pope's small black eyes,
very close, staring into his own. He looked away.
There were two cuts on Pope's left shoulder. "Oh,
look at the blood!" Linda was crying. "Look at the
blood!" She had never been able to bear the sight of
blood. Pope lifted his other hand to strike him, he
thought. He stiffened to receive the blow. But the
hand only took him under the chin and turned his
face, so that he had to look again into Pope's eyes.
For a long time, for hours and hours. And suddenly
he couldn't help it he began to cry. Pope burst
out laughing. "Go," he said, in the other Indian

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
words. "Go, my brave Ahaiyuta." He ran out into
the other room to hide his tears.

"You are fifteen," said old Mitsima, in the Indian
words.

"Now I may teach you to work the clay."

Squatting by the river, they worked together.
"First of all," said Mitsima, taking a lump of the
wetted clay between his hands, "we make a little
moon." The old man squeezed the lump into a disk,

then bent up the edges; the moon became a shallow
cup.

Slowly and unskilfully he imitated the old man's
delicate gestures.

"A moon, a cup, and now a snake." Mitsima
rolled out another piece of clay into a long flexible

cylinder,

hooped it into a circle and pressed it on

"Then another snake. And
another. And another." Round by round, Mitsima
built up the sides of the pot; it was narrow, it bulged,

to the rim of the cup.

narrowed again towards the neck. Mitsima
squeezed and patted, stroked and scraped; and there
at last it stood, in shape the familiar water pot of
Malpais, but creamy white instead of black, and

it

still

soft to

the touch. The crooked parody of Mit-

sima's, his own stood beside it.

Looking at the two

pots, he had to laugh.

"But the next one will be better," he said, and
began to moisten another piece of clay.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
To fashion, to give form, to feel his fingers gaining
in skill and power

—

this gave him an extraordinary

pleasure. "A, B, C, Vitamin D," he sang to himself
as he worked. "The fat's in the liver, the cod's in the

sea." And Mitsima also sang

—a song about killing a

bear. They worked all day, and all day he was filled

with an intense, absorbing happiness.
"Next winter," said old Mitsima, "I will teach you
to make the bow."

He stood for a long time outside the house; and at
last the

ceremonies within were finished. The door

opened; they came out. Kothlu came first, his right
hand outstretched and tightly closed, as though over
some precious jewel. Her clenched hand similarly
outstretched, Kiakime followed. They walked in
silence, and in silence, behind them, came the
brothers and sisters and cousins and all the troop of
old people.

They walked out of the pueblo, across the mesa.
At the edge of the cliff they halted, facing the early
morning sun. Kothlu opened his hand. A pinch of
corn meal lay white on the palm; he breathed on it,

murmured a few words, then threw it, a handful of
white dust, towards the sun. Kiakime did the same.
Then Kiakime's father stepped forward, and holding
up a feathered prayer stick, made a long prayer, then
threw the stick after the corn meal.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"It is finished," said old Mitsima in a loud voice.

"They are married."
"Well," said Linda, as they turned away, "all I
can say is, it does seem a lot of fuss to make about

In civilized countries, when a boy wants
But where are you going,
to have a girl, he just

so

littie.

.

.

.

John?"

He paid no attention to her calling, but ran on,
away, away, anywhere to be by himself.
It is finished Old Mitsima's words repeated themselves in his mind. Finished, finished ... In silence
and from a long way off, but violently, desperately,
hopelessly, he had loved Kiakime. And now it was
finished. He was sixteen.

At the full moon, in the Antelope Kiva, secrets
would be told, secrets would be done and borne.
They would go down, boys, into the kiva and come
out again, men. The boys were all afraid and at the
same time impatient. And at last it was the day.
The sun went down, the moon rose. He went with
the others. Men were standing, dark, at the entrance
to the kiva;

the ladder went

down into the red

lighted depths. Already the leading boys had begun

climb down. Suddenly, one of the men stepped
forward, caught him by the arm, and pulled him out
of the ranks. He broke free and dodged back into his
place among the others. This time the man struck
to

BRAVE NEW WORLD
him, pulled

his hair.

"Not for you, white-hair!"

"Not for the son of the she-dog," said one of the
other men. The boys laughed. "Go!" And as he still

hovered on the fringes of the group, "Go!" the men
shouted again. One of them bent down, took a stone,
threw it. "Go, go, go!" There was a shower of stones.
Bleeding, he ran away into the darkness. From the

came the noise of singing. The last of
the boys had climbed down the ladder. He was all

red-lit kiva

alone.

All alone, outside the pueblo,

on the bare plain

of the mesa. The rock was like bleached bones in the

Down in the valley, the coyotes were
howling at the moon. The bruises hurt him, the cuts
were still bleeding; but it was not for pain that he
sobbed; it was because he was all alone, because he
had been driven out, alone, into this skeleton world
of rocks and moonlight. At the edge of the precipice
he sat down. The moon was behind him; he looked
down into the black shadow of the mesa, into the
black shadow of death. He had only to take one step,
He held out his right hand in the
one little jump.
moonlight. From the cut on his wrist the blood was
still oozing. Every few seconds a drop fell, dark, almost colourless in the dead light. Drop, drop, drop.
To-morrow and to-morrow and to-morrow
He had discovered Time and Death and God.
"Alone, always alone," the young man was saying.
The words awoke a plaintive echo in Bernard's
moonlight.

.

.

.

.

.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"So am I," he said, on a
mind. Alone, alone
gush of confidingness. "Terribly alone."
"Are you?" John looked surprised. "I thought that
in the Other Place ... I mean, Linda always said
.

.

.

that nobody was ever alone there."

Bernard blushed uncomfortably. "You see," he
mumbling and with averted eyes, "I'm rather
different from most people, I suppose. If one happens
to be decanted different ..."
said,

"Yes, that's just it." The young man nodded. "If
one's different, one's

bound to be lonely. They're

Do you know, they shut me out of
absolutely everything? When the other boys were
beastly to one.

sent out to spend the night on the mountains

—

you
know, when you have to dream which your sacred
animal is they wouldn't let me go with the others;
they wouldn't tell me any of the secrets. I did it by
myself, though," he added. "Didn't eat anything for
five days and then went out one night alone into
those mountains there." He pointed.
Patronizingly, Bernard smiled. "And did you
dream of anything?" he asked.
The other nodded. "But I mustn't tell you what."
He was silent for a little; then, in a low voice,
"Once," he went on, "I did something that none of
the others did: I stood against a rock in the middle
of the day, in summer, with my arms out, like Jesus
on the cross."
"What on earth for?"

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"I wanted to know what it was like being crucified.

Hanging there in the sun ..."
"But why?"

He hesitated. "Because I felt I
ought to. If Jesus could stand it. And then, if one
"Why? Well

.

.

."

Besides,
has done something wrong
happy; that was another reason."
.

.

.

I

was un-

"It seems a funny way of curing your unhappiness," said Bernard. But on second thoughts he de-

cided that there was, after all, some sense in it. Better

than taking soma.

.

.

.

"I fainted after a time," said the young man.
"Fell down on my face. Do you see the mark where
cut myself?" He lifted the thick yellow hair from
his forehead. The scar showed, pale and puckered,
I

on his right temple.
Bernard looked, and then quickly, with a little
shudder, averted his eyes. His conditioning had
made him not so much pitiful as profoundly squeamish. The mere suggestion of illness or wounds was to
him not only horrifying, but even repulsive and
rather disgusting. Like dirt, or deformity, or old age.

Hastily he changed the subject.

"I wonder if you'd like to come back to London
with us?" he asked, making the first move in a cam-

paign whose strategy he had been secretly elaborating ever since, in the little house, he had realized

who the "father" of this young savage must be.
"Would you like that?"

.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
The young man's face lit up. "Do you really
mean it?"
"Of course; if I can get permission, that is."
"Linda too?"
"Well

.

.

."

He hesitated doubtfully. That revolt-

ing creature! No, it was impossible. Unless, unless
It

.

.

suddenly occurred to Bernard that her very re-

voltingness might prove an enormous asset. "But of

course!" he cried, making up for his first hesitations

with an excess of noisy cordiality.

The young man drew a deep breath. "To think
it

should be coming true

—what I've dreamt of

all

my life. Do you remember what Miranda says?"
"Who's Miranda?"
But the young man had evidently not heard the
question. "O wonder!" he was saying; and his eyes
shone, his face was brightly flushed. "How many
goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous
mankind is!" The flush suddenly deepened; he was
thinking of Lenina, of an angel in bottle-green viscose,

lustrous with youth

and

skin food,

benevolently smiling. His voice faltered.

plump,

"O brave

new world," he began, then suddenly interrupted
himself; the blood had left his cheeks; he was as pale
as paper.

"Are you married to her?" he asked.

"Am I what?"
"Married.

You know

—for ever. They say

ever' in the Indian words; it can't be broken."

"Ford, no!" Bernard couldn't help laughing.

'for

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
John also laughed, but for another reason
laughed for pure joy.
"O brave new world," he repeated. "O brave new
world that has such people in it. Let's start at once."
"You have a most peculiar way of talking sometimes," said Bernard, staring at the young man in
perplexed astonishment. "And, anyhow, hadn't you
better wait till you actually see the new world?"

166

cva^&^Wo

CHAPTER NINE
Lenina felt herself entitled, after this day of queerness and horror, to a complete and absolute holiday.
As soon as they got back to the rest-house, she swallowed six half-gramme tablets of soma, lay down on
her bed, and within ten minutes had embarked for
lunar eternity. It would be eighteen hours at the
least before she was in time again.
Bernard meanwhile lay pensive and wide-eyed
in the dark. It was long after midnight before he
fell asleep. Long after midnight; but his insomnia
had not been fruitless; he had a plan.
Punctually, on the following morning, at ten
o'clock, the green-uniformed octoroon stepped out

of his helicopter. Bernard was waiting for him among
the agaves.

"Miss Crowne's gone on soma-holidsiy" he ex-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
plained.

"Can hardly be back before five. Which

leaves us seven hours."

He could fly to Santa Fe, do all the business he
had to do, and be in Malpais again long before she
woke up.
"She'll be quite safe here by herself?"
"Safe as helicopters," the octoroon assured him.

They climbed into the machine and started off at
once. At ten thirty-four they landed on the roof of
the Santa Fe Post Office; at ten thirty-seven Bernard
had got through to the World Controller's Office in
Whitehall; at ten thirty-nine he was speaking to his
fordship's fourth personal secretary; at ten forty-four

he was repeating his story to the first secretary, and
at ten forty-seven and a half it was the deep, resonant

voice of Mustapha Mond himself that sounded in his
ears.

"I ventured to think," stammered Bernard, "that
your fordship might find the matter of sufficient
scientific interest

..."

"Yes, I do find it of sufficient scientific interest,"
said the deep voice. "Bring these two individuals back
to London with you."

"Your fordship is aware that I shall need a special
permit ..."

"The necessary orders," said Mustapha Mond,
"are being sent to the Warden of the Reservation at
this moment. You will proceed at once to the Warden's Office. Good-morning, Mr. Marx."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
There was silence. Bernard hung up the receiver
and hurried up to the roof.
"Warden's Office," he said to the Gamma-green
octoroon.

At ten

fifty-four

Bernard was shaking hands

with the Warden.
"Delighted,

was

Mr. Marx, delighted." His boom
"We have just received special

deferential.

orders ..."

"I know," said Bernard, interrupting him.

"I

was talking to his fordship on the phone a moment
ago." His bored tone implied that he was in the
habit of talking to his fordship every day of the week.
He dropped into a chair. "If you'll kindly take all
the necessary steps as soon as possible. As soon as
possible," he emphatically repeated. He was thoroughly enjoying himself.
At eleven three he had all the necessary papers in
his pocket.

"So long," he said patronizingly to the Warden,

who had accompanied him as far as the lift gates.
"So long."
He walked

across to the hotel,

had a bath, a

vibro-vac massage, and an electrolytic shave,

lis-

tened in to the morning's news, looked in for half an

hour on the televisor, ate a leisured luncheon, and at
half-past two flew back with the octoroon to Malpais.

•

•

•

BRAVE NEW WORLD
The young man stood outside the rest-house.
"Bernard," he called. "Bernard!" There was no
answer.
Noiseless on his deerskin moccasins, he ran up the
steps and tried the door. The door was locked.

They were gone! Gone! It was the most terrible
thing that had ever happened to him. She had asked

him to come and see them, and now they were gone.
He sat down on the steps and cried.
Half an hour later it occurred to him to look
through the window. The first thing he saw was a
green suit-case, with the initials L.C. painted on the
lid. Joy flared up like fire within him. He picked up

a stone. The smashed glass tinkled on the floor. A

moment later he was inside the room. He opened the
green suit-case; and

all at

once he was breathing

Lenina's perfume, filling his lungs with her essential
being. His heart beat wildly; for a moment he was

almost faint. Then, bending over the precious box,

he touched, he lifted into the light, he examined.
The zippers on Lenina's spare pair of viscose velveteen shorts were at first a puzzle, then, solved, a delight. Zip, and then zip; zip, and then zip; he was
enchanted. Her green slippers were the most beautiful things

he had ever seen. He unfolded a pair of

zippicamiknicks, blushed, put

them

hastily

away

again; but kissed a perfumed acetate handkerchief

and wound a scarf round his neck. Opening a box, he

BRAVE NEW WORLD
spilt

a cloud of scented powder. His hands were

floury with the stuff. He wiped them on his chest, on
his shoulders,

on his bare arms. Delicious perfume!

He shut his eyes; he rubbed his cheek against his own
powdered arm. Touch of smooth skin against his
face, scent in his nostrils

of musky dust

—her real

presence. "Lenina," he whispered. "Lenina!"

A noise made him start, made him guiltily turn.
He crammed up his thieveries into the suit-case and
shut the lid; then listened again, looked. Not a sign

of life, not a sound. And yet he had certainly heard

something

—something

the creak of a board.

like

a sigh, something like

He tiptoed to the door and,

cautiously opening it, found himself looking on to a

broad landing. On the opposite side of the landing

was another door,

ajar.

He stepped out, pushed,

peeped.

There, on a low bed, the sheet flung back, dressed
in a pair of pink one-piece zippyjamas, lay Lenina,
fast asleep and so beautiful in the midst of her curls,

so touchingly childish with her pink toes

and her
grave sleeping face, so trustful in the helplessness of
her limp hands and melted limbs, that the tears

came to his eyes.
With an infinity of quite unnecessary precautions

—for nothing short of a

pistol shot could have called

Lenina back from her soma-ho\ida.y before the appointed time

—he entered the room, he knelt on the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
He gazed,

he clasped his
hands, his lips moved. "Her eyes," he murmured,
beside the bed.

floor

"Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gail, her voice;
Handiest in thy discourse 01 that her hand,
In whose comparison all whites are ink
Writing their own reproach; to whose soft seizure

The cygnet's down is harsh ..."

A fly buzzed round her; he waved it away. "Flies,"
he remembered,
"On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand, may seize
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin."

Very slowly, with the hesitating gesture of one
who reaches forward to stroke a shy and possibly
rather dangerous bird, he put out his hand. It hung
there trembling, within an inch of those limp fingers,
on the verge of contact. Did he dare? Dare to profane
No, he didn't.
with his unworthiest hand that
The bird was too dangerous. His hand dropped
.

.

.

back. How beautiful she was! How beautiful!

Then suddenly he found himself reflecting that he
had only to take hold of the zipper at her neck and
give one long, strong pull

.

.

.

He shut his eyes, he

shook his head with the gesture of a dog shaking its
ears as it emerges from the water. Detestable thought!
He was ashamed of himself. Pure and vestal modesty

.

.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
There was a humming in the air. Another fly
trying to steal immortal blessings? A wasp? He
looked, saw nothing. The humming grew louder and
louder, localized itself as being outside the shuttered

windows. The plane! In a panic, he scrambled to his
and ran into the other room, vaulted through
the open window, and hurrying along the path between the tall agaves was in time to receive Bernard
Marx as he climbed out of the helicopter.
feet

cv^»sV>o

CHAPTER TEN
The hands of all the four thousand electric clocks
in all the Bloomsbury Centre's four thousand rooms

marked twenty-seven minutes past two. "This hive
of industry," as the Director was fond of calling it,

was in the full buzz of work. Every one was busy,
everything in ordered motion.

Under the micro-

scopes, their long tails furiously lashing, spermatozoa
were burrowing head first into eggs; and, fertilized,
the eggs were expanding, dividing, or if bokanovskified, budding and breaking up into whole populations of separate

embryos. From the Social Predes-

tination Room the escalators went rumbling down

and there, in the crimson darkness, stewingly warm on their cushion of peritoneum
and gorged with blood-surrogate and hormones,
the foetuses grew and grew or, poisoned, languished
into a stunted Epsilonhood. With a faint hum and

into the basement,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
the moving racks crawled imperceptibly
through the weeks and the recapitulated aeons to
where, in the Decanting Room, the newly-unbottled
babes uttered their first yell of horror and amazement.
The dynamos purred in the sub-basement, the
lifts rushed up and down. On all the eleven floors
of Nurseries it was feeding time. From eighteen
rattle

hundred bottles eighteen hundred carefully labelled
infants were simultaneously sucking down their pint

of pasteurized external secretion.

Above them, in ten successive layers of dormitory,
the little boys and girls who were still young enough
to need an afternoon sleep were as busy as every one
else,

though they did not know it, listening uncon-

sciously to hypnopaedic lessons in hygiene and sociability, in class-consciousness

and the toddler's love-

Above these again were the playrooms where,
having turned to rain, nine hundred
weather
the
older children were amusing themselves with bricks
life.

and clay modelling, hunt-the-zipper, and erotic play.
Buzz, buzz! the hive was humming, busily, joyfully. Blithe was the singing of the young girls over
their test-tubes, the Predestinators whistled as they

worked, and in the Decanting Room what glorious
jokes were cracked above the empty bottles! But the
Director's face, as he entered the Fertilizing Room
with Henry Foster, was grave, wooden with severity.
"A public example," he was saying. "In this room,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
because it contains more high-caste workers than

any other in the Centre. I have told him to meet me
here at half-past two."

"He does his work very well," put in Henry, with
hypocritical generosity.

"I know. But that's all the more reason for sever-

His intellectual eminence carries with it corresponding moral responsibilities. The greater a
ity.

man's talents, the greater his power to lead astray.
It is better that one should suffer than that many
should be corrupted. Consider the matter dispassionately, Mr. Foster, and you will see that no offence is
so heinous as unorthodoxy of behaviour. Murder
and, after all, what is an
kills only the individual
individual?" With a sweeping gesture he indicated

—

the rows of microscopes, the test-tubes, the incuba-

"We can make a new one with the greatest ease

tors.

—as many as we

like.

Unorthodoxy threatens more

than the life of a mere individual; it strikes at Society
Yes, at Society itself," he repeated. "Ah, but
here he comes."
Bernard had entered the room and was advancing
between the rows of fertilizers towards them. A
veneer of jaunty self-confidence thinly concealed
his nervousness. The voice in which he said, "Goodmorning, Director," was absurdly too loud; that in
which, correcting his mistake, he said, "You asked
me to come and speak to you here," ridiculously
itself.

soft,

a squeak.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Yes, Mr. Marx," said the Director portentously.

"I did ask you to come to me here. You returned

from your holiday last night, I understand."
"Yes," Bernard answered.
"Yes-s," repeated the Director, lingering, a ser-

on the "s." Then, suddenly raising his voice,
"Ladies and gentlemen," he trumpeted, "ladies and
gentlemen."
pent,

The singing of the girls over their test-tubes, the
preoccupied whistling of the Microscopists, suddenly
ceased.

There was a profound silence; every one

looked round.

"Ladies and gentlemen," the Director repeated
once more, "excuse me for thus interrupting your
labours.

A painful duty constrains me. The security

and stability of Society are in danger. Yes, in danger,
and gentlemen. This man," he pointed ac-

ladies

cusingly at Bernard, "this

man who stands before

you here, this Alpha-Plus to whom so much has been
given, and from whom, in consequence, so much
must be expected, this colleague of yours or should
I anticipate and say this ex-colleague?
has grossly
betrayed the trust imposed in him. By his heretical
views on sport and soma, by the scandalous unorthodoxy of his sex-life, by his refusal to obey the teachings of Our Ford and behave out of office hours,

—
—

'even as a little infant,' " (here the Director made
the sign of the T), "he has proved himself an enemy

of Society, a subverter, ladies and gentlemen, of all

BRAVE MEW WORLD
Order and Stability, a conspirator against Civilization itself. For this reason I propose to dismiss him,
to dismiss him with ignominy from the post he has
held in this Centre; I propose forthwith to apply for
his transference to a Sub-Centre of the lowest order

and, that his punishment may serve the best interest
of Society, as far as possible removed from any im-

portant Centre of population. In Iceland he will

have small opportunity to lead others astray by his
unfordly example." The Director paused; then,
folding his arms, he turned impressively to Bernard.
"Marx," he said, "can you show any reason why I
should not now execute the judgment passed upon

you?"
"Yes, I can," Bernard answered in a very loud
voice.

Somewhat taken aback, but still
"Then show it," said the Director.

majestically,

"Certainly. But it's in the passage. One moment."
Bernard hurried to the door and threw it open.
"Come in," he commanded, and the reason came in
and showed itself.
There was a gasp, a murmur of astonishment and
horror; a young girl screamed; standing on a chair
to get a better view some one upset two test-tubes
full

of spermatozoa. Bloated, sagging, and

among

those firm youthful bodies, those undistorted faces, a

strange and terrifying monster of middle-agedness,

Linda advanced into the room, coquettishly smiling

BRAVE NEW WORLD
her broken and discoloured smile, and rolling as she
walked, with what was meant to be a voluptuous
undulation, her enormous haunches. Bernard walked
beside her.

"There he is," he said, pointing at the Director.
"Did you think I didn't recognize him?" Linda
asked indignantly; then, turning to the Director,

"Of course I knew you; Tomakin, I should have
known you anywhere, among a thousand. But perhaps you've forgotten me. Don't you remember?
Don't you remember, Tomakin? Your Linda." She
stood looking at him, her head on one side, still
smiling, but with a smile that became progressively,
in face of the Director's expression of petrified disgust, less

and less self-confident, that wavered and

finally went out. "Don't you remember, Tomakin?"

she repeated in a voice that trembled. Her eyes were
anxious, agonized.

The blotched and sagging face

twitched grotesquely into the grimace of extreme
grief. "Tomakin!" She held out her arms. Some one

began to titter.
"What's the meaning," began the Director, "of
this monstrous

..."

"Tomakin!" She ran forward, her blanket trailing
behind her, threw her arms round his neck, hid her
face on his chest.
A howl of laughter went up irrepressibly.
".

.

.

this monstrous practical joke," the Director

shouted.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Red in the face, he tried to disengage himself from
her embrace. Desperately she clung. "But I'm Linda,
I'm Linda." The laughter drowned her voice. "You

made me have a baby," she screamed above the upThere was a sudden and appalling hush; eyes
floated uncomfortably, not knowing where to look.
The Director went suddenly pale, stopped struggling
and stood, his hands on her wrists, staring down at
and I was its mother."
her, horrified. "Yes, a baby
She flung the obscenity like a challenge into the

roar.

—

outraged silence; then, suddenly breaking away
from him, ashamed, ashamed, covered her face with
her hands, sobbing. "It wasn't my fault, Tomakin.
Because I always did my drill, didn't I? Didn't I?
If you knew how
Always ... I don't know how
was
a
comfort
But
he
Tomakin
to me, all
awful,
the same." Turning towards the door, "John!" she
called. "John!"
He came in at once, paused for a moment just inside the door, looked round, then soft on his moccasined feet strode quickly across the room, fell on
his knees in front of the Director, and said in a clear
.

.

voice:

.

.

.

.

"My father!"

The word (for "father" was not so much obscene
as

—with

its connotation of something at one

remove

from the loathsomeness and moral obliquity of childbearing merely gross, a scatological rather than a
pornographic impropriety); the comically smutty

—

word relieved what had become a quite intolerable

BRA VE NEW WORLD
tension. Laughter broke out, enormous, almost hysterical, peal after peal, as though it would never stop.

My father — and it was the Director! My father! Oh,
Ford, oh Ford! That was really too good.

The

whooping and the roaring renewed themselves, faces
seemed on the point of disintegration, tears were
streaming. Six more test-tubes of spermatozoa were
upset.

My father!

Pale, wild-eyed, the Director glared

about him

in an agony of bewildered humiliation.

My father! The laughter, which had shown signs
of dying away, broke out again more loudly than
ever. He put his hands over his ears and rushed out

of the room.

181

CNr^^^v-YO

CHAPTER ELEVEN
After the scene in the Fertilizing Room, all uppercaste London was wild to see this delicious creature

who had fallen on his knees before the Director of
Hatcheries and Conditioning
Director, for the poor

—or rather the ex-

man had resigned immedi-

ately afterwards and never set foot inside the Centre

—

again had flopped down and called him (the joke
was almost too good to be true!) "my father." Linda,

on the contrary, cut no ice; nobody had the smallest
desire to see Linda. To say one was a mother that
was past a joke: it was an obscenity. Moreover, she
wasn't a real savage, had been hatched out of a bottle and conditioned like any one else: so couldn't
have really quaint ideas. Finally and this was by
far the strongest reason for people's not wanting to
there was her appearance. Fat;
see poor Linda

—

—

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
having lost her youth; with bad teeth, and a blotched
complexion, and that figure (Ford!) you simply
couldn't look at her without feeling sick, yes, positively sick. So the best people were quite determined
not to see Linda. And Linda, for her part, had no desire to see them. The return to civilization was for her

—

the return to soma, was the possibility of lying in bed
and taking holiday after holiday, without ever having to come back to a headache or a fit of vomiting,
without ever being made to feel as you always felt
after peyotl, as though you'd done something so
shamefully anti-social that you could never hold up
your head again. Soma played none of these unpleasant tricks. The holiday it gave was perfect and, if the
morning after was disagreeable, it was so, not intrinsically, but only by comparison with the joys of
the holiday. The remedy was to make the holiday
continuous. Greedily she clamoured for ever larger,
ever more frequent doses. Dr. Shaw at first demurred;
then let her have what she wanted. She took as much
as twenty grammes a day.

"Which will finish her off in a month or two," the
doctor confided to Bernard. "One day the respiratory centre will be paralyzed. No more breathing.
Finished. And a good thing too. If we could rejuvenate, of course it would be different. But we can't."

Surprisingly, as every one thought (for on soma-

holiday Linda was most conveniently out of the

way), John raised objections.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But aren't you shortening her life by giving her
so much?"

"In one sense, yes," Dr. Shaw admitted. "But
another we're actually lengthening

in

it."

The

young man stared, uncomprehending. "Soma may
make you lose a few years in time," the doctor went
on. "But think of the enormous, immeasurable durations it can give you out of time. Every soma-ho\ida.y
is a bit of what our ancestors used to call eternity."
John began to understand. "Eternity was in our
lips and eyes," he murmured.
"Eh?"
"Nothing."

"Of course," Dr. Shaw went on, "you can't allow
people to go popping off into eternity if they've got
any serious work to do. But as she hasn't got any
serious work ..."

"All the same," John persisted, "I don't believe
it's

right."

The doctor shrugged

his

shoulders.

"Well,

of

course, if you prefer to have her screaming mad all

the time

."
.

.

In the end John was forced to give in. Linda got
her soma. Thenceforward she remained in her little
room on the thirty-seventh floor of Bernard's apart-

ment house, in bed, with the radio and television
always on, and the patchouli tap just dripping, and
the soma tablets within reach of her hand there she
remained; and yet wasn't there at all. was all the

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
time away, infinitely far away, on holiday; on holiday in some other world, where the music of the
radio was a labyrinth of sonorous colours, a sliding,
palpitating labyrinth, that led (by what beautifully
inevitable windings) to a bright centre of absolute

conviction; where the dancing images of the television box were the performers in some indescribably

where the dripping patchouli was more than scent was the sun, was a
million sexophones, was Pope making love, only
much more so, incomparably more, and without
delicious all-singing feely;

—

end.

"No, we can't rejuvenate. But I'm very glad,"
Dr. Shaw had concluded, "to have had this opportunity to see an example of senility in a human being.

Thank you so much for calling me in." He shook
Bernard warmly by the hand.
was John, then, they were all after. And as
it was only through Bernard, his accredited guardian, that John could be seen, Bernard now found
It

first time in his life, treated not
merely normally, but as a person of outstanding importance. There was no more talk of the alcohol

himself, for the

no gibes at his personal appearance. Henry Foster went out of his way to be

in his blood-surrogate,

friendly; Benito

Hoover made him a present of six

packets of sex-hormone chewing-gum; the Assistant
Predestinator came and cadged almost abjectly for
an invitation to one of Bernard's evening parties.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
As for the women, Bernard had only to hint at the
possibility of an invitation, and he could have whichever of them he liked.
"Bernard's asked me to meet the Savage next
Wednesday," Fanny announced triumphantly.
"I'm so glad," said Lenina. "And now you must
admit that you were wrong about Bernard. Don't
you think he's really rather sweet?"
Fanny nodded. "And I must say," she said, "I
was quite agreeably surprised."

The Chief Bottler, the Director of Predestination,
three

Deputy

Assistant

Fertilizer-Generals,

the

Professor of Feelies in the College of Emotional

Engineering, the Dean of the Westminster Community Singery, the

Supervisor of Bokanovskification

—

the list of Bernard's notabilities was interminable.

"And I had six girls last week," he confided to
Helmholtz Watson. "One on Monday, two on Tuesmore on Friday, and one on Saturday.
And if I'd had the time or the inclination, there
were at least a dozen more who were only too
day, two

anxious ..."

Helmholtz listened to his boastings in a silence
so gloomily disapproving that Bernard was offended.

"You're envious," he said.
Helmholtz shook his head. "I'm rather sad, that's
all," he answered.
Bernard went off in a huff. Never, he told himself,
never would he speak to Helmholtz again.

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
The days passed. Success went fizzily to Bernard's
head, and in the process completely reconciled him
(as any good intoxicant should do) to a world which,

up till then, he had found very unsatisfactory. In so
him as important, the order of

far as it recognized

things was good. But, reconciled by his success, he

yet refused to forego the privilege of criticizing this
order. For the act of criticizing heightened his sense

of importance, made him feel larger. Moreover, he
did genuinely believe that there were things to
criticize. (At the same time, he genuinely liked being

a success and having all the girls he wanted.) Before
those who now, for the sake of the Savage, paid their

court to him, Bernard would parade a carping un-

orthodoxy. He was politely listened to. But behind
his back people shook their heads. "That young man
will come to a bad end," they said, prophesying the

more confidently in that they themselves would in
due course personally see to it that the end was bad.
"He won't find another Savage to help him out a
second time," they said. Meanwhile, however, there
was the first Savage; they were polite. And because
they were polite, Bernard felt positively gigantic
gigantic and at the same time light with elation,
lighter than air.

"Lighter than air," said Bernard, pointing upwards.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Like a pearl in the sky, high, high above them,
the Weather Department's captive balloon shone
rosily in the sunshine.
".

.

.

the said Savage," so ran Bernard's instruc-

tions, "to be shown civilized life in all its aspects.

."
.

.

He was being shown a bird's-eye view of it at
present, a bird's-eye view from the platform of the

Charing-T Tower. The Station Master and the
Resident Meteorologist were acting as guides. But
it was Bernard who did most of the talking. Intoxicated, he was behaving as though, at the very least,
he were a visiting World Controller. Lighter than
air.

The Bombay Green Rocket dropped out of the
The passengers alighted. Eight identical
sky.
Dravidian twins in khaki looked out of the eight
portholes of the cabin the stewards.
"Twelve hundred and fifty kilometres an hour,"

—

said the

Station Master impressively.

"What do

you think of that, Mr. Savage?"

John thought it very nice. "Still," he said, "Ariel
could put a girdle round the earth in forty minutes."

"The Savage," wrote Bernard in his report to
Mustapha Mond, "shows surprisingly little astonishment at, or awe of, civilized inventions. This is partly
due, no doubt, to the fact that he has heard them
talked about by the woman Linda, his

m

."

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
(Mustapha Mond frowned. "Does the fool think
I'm too squeamish to see the word written out at
full length?")

"Partly on his interest being focussed on what

he calls 'the soul,' which he persists in regarding as
an entity independent of the physical environment,
whereas, as I tried to point out to him ..."

The Controller skipped the next sentences and
was just about to turn the page in search of something more interestingly concrete, when his eye was
caught by a series of quite extraordinary phrases.
"... though I must admit," he read, "that I agree
with the Savage in finding civilized infantility too
easy or, as he puts it, not expensive enough; and I
would like to take this opportunity of drawing your
fordship's attention to

.

.

."

Mustapha Mond's anger gave place almost at
once to mirth. The idea of this creature solemnly
lecturing him him about the social order was
really too grotesque. The man must have gone mad.
"I ought to give him a lesson," he said to himself;
then threw back his head and laughed aloud. For
the moment, at any rate, the lesson would not be

—

given.

It was a small factory of lighting-sets for helicopters,

a branch of the Electrical Equipment Corpo-

ration.

They were met on the roof itself (for that

BRAVE NEW WORLD
from the Conwas magical in its effects) by the Chief
Technician and the Human Element Manager.
They walked downstairs into the factory.
"Each process/' explained the Human Element
Manager, "is carried out, so far as possible, by a
single Bokanovsky Group."
And, in effect, eighty-three almost noseless black
brachycephalic Deltas were cold-pressing. The fiftysix four-spindle chucking and turning machines were
being manipulated by fifty-six aquiline and ginger
Gammas. One hundred and seven heat-conditioned
Epsilon Senegalese were working in the foundry.

circular letter of recommendation
troller

Thirty-three Delta females, long-headed, sandy, with
narrow pelvises, and all within 20 millimetres of 1

metre 69 centimetres tall, were cutting screws. In
the assembling room, the dynamos were being put
together by two sets of Gamma-Plus dwarfs. The two
low work-tables faced one another; between them
crawled the conveyor with its load of separate parts;
forty-seven blonde heads were confronted by fortyseven brown ones. Forty-seven snubs by forty-seven
hooks; forty-seven receding by forty-seven prognathous chins. The completed mechanisms were inspected by eighteen identical curly auburn girls in

Gamma green, packed in crates by thirty-four shortlegged, left-handed male Delta-Minuses, and loaded
into the waiting trucks

and lorries by sixty-three

blue-eyed, flaxen and freckled Epsilon Semi-Morons.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"O brave new world

.

.

."

By some malice of his

memory the Savage found himself repeating Miranda's words. "O brave new world that has such
people in it."

"And I assure you," the Human Element Manager concluded, as they left the factory, "we hardly
ever have any trouble with our workers. We always
find

.

.

."

But the Savage had suddenly broken away from
his companions and was violently retching, behind
a clump of laurels, as though the solid earth had
been a helicopter in an air pocket.

"The Savage," wrote Bernard, "refuses to take
soma, and seems much distressed because the woman

m
remains permanently on holiday.
worthy of note that, in spite of his m
's
senility and the extreme repulsiveness of her appearance, the Savage frequently goes to see her and appears to be much attached to her an interesting
example of the way in which early conditioning can
be made to modify and even run counter to natural
impulses (in this case, the impulse to recoil from an
Linda, his

,

It is

—

unpleasant object)."

At Eton they alighted on the roof of Upper School.

On the opposite side of School Yard, the fifty-two
Tower gleamed white in the
sunshine. College on their left and, on their right, the

stories

of Lupton's

BRAVE NEW WORLD
School

Community Singery reared their venerable

piles of ferro-concrete and vita-glass. In the centre of

the quadrangle stood the quaint old chrome-steel
statue of Our Ford.

Dr. Gaffney, the Provost, and Miss Keate, the
Head Mistress, received them as they stepped out of
the plane.

"Do you have many twins here?"

the Savage

asked rather apprehensively, as they set out on their
tour of inspection.
"Oh no," the Provost answered. "Eton is reserved
exclusively for upper-caste boys and girls. One egg,

one adult. It makes education more difficult of
course. But as they'll be called upon to take responsibilities and deal with unexpected emergencies, it
can't be helped." He sighed.

Bernard, meanwhile, had taken a strong fancy to
Miss Keate. "If you're free any Monday, Wednesday, or Friday evening," he was saying. Jerking his
his thumb towards the Savage, "He's curious, you

know," Bernard added. "Quaint."
Miss Keate smiled (and her smile was really
charming, he thought); said Thank you; would be
delighted to come to one of his parties. The Provost
opened a door.
Five minutes in that Alpha Double Plus classroom
left

John a trifle bewildered.

"What is elementary relativity?" he whispered to
Bernard. Bernard tried to explain, then thought

BRAVE NEW WORLD
better of it

and suggested that they should go to

some other classroom.

From behind a door in the corridor leading to the
Beta-Minus geography room, a ringing soprana
voice called, "One, two, three, four," and then, with
a weary impatience, "As you were."
"Malthusian Drill," explained the Head Mistress.
"Most of our girls are freemartins, of course. I'm
a freemartin myself." She smiled at Bernard. "But
we have about eight hundred unsterilized ones who
need constant drilling."
In the Beta-Minus geography room John learnt
that "a savage reservation is a place which, owing
to unfavourable climatic or geological conditions,
or poverty of natural resources, has not been worth
the expense of civilizing." A click; the room was
darkened; and suddenly, on the screen above the
Master's head, there were the Penitentes of Acoma
prostrating themselves before Our Lady, and wailing
as John had heard them wail, confessing their sins
before Jesus on the cross, before the eagle image of
Pookong. The young Etonians fairly shouted with
laughter. Still wailing, the Penitentes rose to their feet,

stripped off their upper garments and, with knotted

whips, began to beat themselves, blow after blow.

Redoubled, the laughter drowned even the amplified record of their groans.

"But why do they laugh?" asked the Savage in a
pained bewilderment.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Why?" The Provost turned towards him a still
broadly grinning face. "Why? But because
extraordinarily funny."

it's

so

In the cinematographic twilight, Bernard risked
a gesture which, in the past, even total darkness

would hardly have emboldened him

make.
Strong in his new importance, he put his arm round
to

the Head Mistress's waist. It yielded, willowily. He

was just about to snatch a kiss or two and perhaps
a gentle pinch, when the shutters clicked open
again.

"Perhaps we had better go on," said Miss Keate,
and moved towards the door.

"And this," said the Provost a moment later, "is
Hypnopaedic Control Room."
Hundreds of synthetic music boxes, one for each
dormitory, stood ranged in shelves round three sides
of the room; pigeon-holed on the fourth were the
paper sound-track rolls on which the various hypnopasdic lessons were printed.

"You slip the roll in here," explained Bernard,
down this
"press
Gaffney,
Dr.
interrupting
switch ..."

"No, that one," corrected the Provost, annoyed.
"That one, then. The roll unwinds. The selenium
cells transform the light impulses into sound waves,

and

.

.

."

"And there you are," Dr. Gaffney concluded.
"Do they read Shakespeare?" asked the Savage

BRA VE NEW WORLD
as they walked,

on their way to the Bio-chemical

Laboratories, past the School Library.

"Certainly not," said the Head Mistress, blushing.
"Our library," said Dr. Gaffney, "contains only

books of reference. If our young people need distraction, they can get it at the feelies. We don't
encourage them to indulge in any solitary amuse-

ments."
Five bus-loads of boys and girls, singing or in a
silent embracement, rolled past them over the vitrified highway.

"Just returned," explained Dr. Gaffney, while

Bernard, whispering, made an appointment with the
Head Mistress for that very evening, "from the

Slough Crematorium. Death conditioning begins
at eighteen months. Every tot spends two mornings a
week in a Hospital for the Dying. All the best toys are
kept there, and they get chocolate cream on death
days. They learn to take dying as a matter of course."
"Like any other physiological process," put in
the Head Mistress professionally.

Eight o'clock at the Savoy. It was all arranged.

On their way back to London they stopped at the
Television Corporation's factory at Brentford.

"Do you mind waiting here a moment while I
go and telephone?" asked Bernard.
The Savage waited and watched. The Main Day-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Shift was just going off duty. Crowds of lower-caste

workers were queued up in front of the monorail
station seven or eight hundred Gamma, Delta and
Epsilon men and women, with not more than a
dozen faces and statures between them. To each of
them, with his or her ticket, the booking clerk

—

pushed over a little cardboard pillbox. The long
caterpillar of men and women moved slowly forward.

"What's in those" (remembering The Merchant of
"those caskets?" the Savage enquired when
Bernard had rejoined him.
"The day's soma ration," Bernard answered,
rather indistinctly; for he was masticating a piece
of Benito Hoover's chewing-gum. "They get it after
their work's over. Four half-gramme tablets. Six on
Venice)

Saturdays."

He

took John's

arm

affectionately

and they

walked back towards the helicopter.

Lenina came singing into the Changing Room.
"You seem very pleased with yourself," said
Fanny.
"I am pleased," she answered. Zip! "Bernard rang
up half an hour ago." Zip, zip! She stepped out of
her shorts. "He has an unexpected engagement."
Zip! "Asked me if I'd take the Savage to the feelies
this evening. I must fly." She hurried away towards
the bathroom.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"She's a lucky girl," Fanny said to herself as she

watched Lenina go.
There was no envy in the comment; good-natured
Fanny was merely stating a fact. Lenina was lucky;
lucky in having shared with Bernard a generous
portion of the Savage's immense celebrity, lucky in
reflecting from her insignificant person the moment's
supremely fashionable glory. Had not the Secretary
of the Young Women's Fordian Association asked
her to give a lecture about her experiences? Had she
not been invited to the Annual Dinner of the Aphroditeum Club? Had she not already appeared in the
Feelytone News visibly, audibly and tactually

—

appeared to countless millions all over the planet?
Hardly less flattering had been the attentions paid
her by conspicuous individuals. The Resident World
Controller's Second Secretary had asked her to
dinner and breakfast. She had spent one week-end
with the Ford Chief-Justice, and another with the
Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury. The

and External Secretions
Corporation was perpetually on the phone, and she
had been to Deauville with the Deputy-Governor
of the Bank of Europe.
"It's wonderful, of course. And yet in a way,"
she had confessed to Fanny, "I feel as though I were
getting something on false pretences. Because, of
course, the first thing they all want to know is what
President of the Internal

it's

like to

make love to a Savage. And I have to

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
say I don't know." She shook her head. "Most of
the men don't believe me, of course. But it's true.
I wish it weren't," she added sadly and sighed. "He's

terribly good-looking; don't you think so?"

"But doesn't he like you?" asked Fanny.
"Sometimes I think he does and sometimes I
think he doesn't. He always does his best to avoid
me; goes out of the room when I come in; won't
touch me; won't even look at me. But sometimes if I
turn round suddenly, I catch him staring; and then
well, you know how men look when they like you."
Yes, Fanny knew.
"I can't make it out," said Lenina.

She couldn't make it out; and not only was bewildered; was also rather upset.

"Because, you see, Fanny, / like him."
Liked him more and more. Well, now there'd

be a real chance, she thought, as she scented herself
a real chance. Her
after her bath. Dab, dab, dab
in
song.
overflowed
high spirits

—

"Hug me till you drug me, honey;
Kiss me till

Vm in a coma:

Hug me, honey, snuggly bunny;
Lovers as good as soma."

The scent organ was playing a delightfully refreshing

Herbal Capriccio

—rippling arpeggios of

thyme and lavender, of rosemary,

basil, myrtle,

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
tarragon; a series of daring modulations through

and a slow return
through sandalwood, camphor, cedar and newthe spice keys into ambergris;

mown hay (with occasional subtle touches of discord

—

a whiff of kidney pudding, the faintest suspicion
of pig's dung) back to the simple aromatics with

which the piece began. The final blast of thyme died
away; there was a round of applause; the lights went
up. In the synthetic music machine the sound-track
roll began to unwind. It was a trio for hyper- violin,
super-cello and oboe-surrogate that now filled the
air with its agreeable languor. Thirty or forty bars

and then, against this instrumental background, a

much more than human voice began to warble; now
throaty, now from the head, now hollow as a flute,
now charged with yearning harmonics, it effortlessly
passed from Gaspard's Forster's low record on the
very frontiers of musical tone to a trilled bat-note

high above the highest G to which (in 1770, at the
Ducal opera of Parma, and to the astonishment of
Mozart) Lucrezia Ajugari, alone of all the singers in
history, once piercingly gave utterance.
Sunk in their pneumatic stalls, Lenina and the
Savage sniffed and listened. It was now the turn
also for eyes and skin.
The house lights went down; fiery letters stood out
solid and as though self-supported in the darkness.
Three Weeks in a Helicopter. An All-SuperSinging, Synthetic-Talking, Coloured, Stereo-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
scopic Feely. With Synchronized Scent-Organ
Accompaniment.
"Take hold of those metal knobs on the arms of
your chair," whispered Lenina. "Otherwise you
won't get any of the feely effects."
The Savage did as he was told.
Those fiery letters, meanwhile, had disappeared;
there were ten seconds of complete darkness; then
suddenly, dazzling and incomparably more solidlooking than they would have seemed in actual flesh
and blood, far more real than reality, there stood
the stereoscopic images, locked in one another's
arms, of a gigantic negro and a golden-haired young

brachycephalic Beta-Plus female.

The Savage started. That sensation on his lips!

He lifted a hand to his mouth; the titillation ceased;
let his

hand fall back on the metal knob; it began

again. The scent organ, meanwhile, breathed pure

musk. Expiringly, a sound-track super-dove cooed
"Oo-ooh"; and vibrating only thirty-two times a
second, a deeper than African bass made answer:
"Aa-aah." "Ooh-ah! Ooh-ah!" the stereoscopic lips
came together again, and once more the facial
erogenous zones of the six thousand spectators in the
Alhambra tingled with almost intolerable galvanic
pleasure. "Ooh ..."

The plot of the film was extremely simple. A few
minutes after the first Oohs and Aahs (a duet having
been sung and a little love made on that famous

BRAVE NEW WORLD

—the Assistant Predestinator was. perfectly right —could be separately
bearskin, every hair of which

and distinctly felt), the negro had a helicopter accident, fell on his head. Thump! what a twinge
through the forehead! A chorus of ow's and die's
went up from the audience.
The concussion knocked all the negro's conditioning into a cocked hat. He developed for the
Beta blonde an exclusive and maniacal passion.

She protested. He persisted. There were struggles,
pursuits, an assault on a rival, finally a sensational
kidnapping. The Beta blonde was ravished away into
the sky and kept there, hovering, for three weeks in a
wildly anti-social tete-a-tete with the black madman.
Finally, after a whole series of adventures and much
aerial acrobacy three handsome young Alphas suc-

ceeded in rescuing her. The negro was packed off to
an Adult Re-conditioning Centre and the film ended
happily and decorously, with the Beta blonde becoming the mistress of all her three rescuers. They
interrupted themselves for a moment to sing a synthetic quartet, with full super-orchestral accompaniment and gardenias on the scent organ. Then the
bearskin made a final appearance and, amid a blare
of sexophones, the last stereoscopic kiss faded into
darkness, the last electric titillation died on the lips
like

a dying moth that quivers, quivers, ever more

feebly, ever more faintly,
still.

and at last is quite, quite

BRAVE NEW WORLD
But for Lenina the moth did not completely die.
Even after the lights had gone up, while they were
shuffling slowly along with the crowd towards the
lifts,

its

ghost

fluttered against her lips,

still

still

traced fine shuddering roads of anxiety and pleasure

Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes
dewily bright, her breath came deeply. She caught
hold of the Savage's arm and pressed it, limp, against
her side. He looked down at her for a moment, pale,
pained, desiring, and ashamed of his desire. He was
across her skin.

Their eyes for a moment met.
What treasures hers promised! A queen's ransom of
temperament. Hastily he looked away, disengaged
his imprisoned arm. He was obscurely terrified lest
she should cease to be something he could feel himnot worthy, not

.

.

.

self unworthy of.

"I don't think you ought to see things like that,"

he said, making haste to transfer from Lenina herthe surrounding circumstances the blame
for any past or possible future lapse from perfection.
"Things like what, John?"
"Like this horrible film."
"Horrible?" Lenina was genuinely astonished.
"But I thought it was lovely."
"It was base," he said indignantly, "it was
self to

ignoble."

She shook her head. "I don't know what you
mean." Why was he so queer? Why did he go out
of his way to spoil things?

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
In the taxicopter he hardly even looked at her.

Bound by strong vows that had never been pronounced, obedient to laws that had long since ceased
to run, he sat averted and in silence. Sometimes, as
though a finger had plucked at some taut, almost
breaking string, his whole body would shake with
a sudden nervous start.
The taxicopter landed on the roof of Lenina's
apartment house. "At last," she thought exultantly
as she stepped out of the cab. At last
even though
he had been so queer just now. Standing under a
lamp, she peered into her hand mirror. At last. Yes,
her nose was a bit shiny. She shook the loose powder
from her puff. While he was paying off the taxi
there would just be time. She rubbed at the shininess,
thinking: "He's terribly good-looking. No need for
him to be shy like Bernard. And yet
Any other
man would have done it long ago. Well, now at last."
That fragment of a face in the little round mirror
suddenly smiled at her.
"Good-night," said a strangled voice behind her.
Lenina wheeled round. He was standing in the door-

—

.

.

.

way of the cab, his eyes fixed, staring; had evidently
been staring all this time while she was powdering
her nose, waiting but what for? or hesitating, trying
to make up his mind, and all the time thinking,
thinking she could not imagine what extraordinary
thoughts. "Good-night, Lenina," he repeated, and
made a strange grimacing attempt to smile.

—

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But, John ... I thought you were ... I mean,
aren't you? ..."

He shut the door and bent forward to say someThe cab shot up into the air.
Looking down through the window in the floor,

thing to the driver.

the Savage could see Lenina's upturned face, pale in
the bluish light of the lamps. The mouth was open,

she was calling.

Her foreshortened figure rushed

away from him; the diminishing square of the roof
seemed to be falling through the darkness.
Five minutes later he was back in his room. From
he took out his mouse-nibbled
volume, turned with religious care its stained and
crumpled pages, and began to read Othello. Othello,
he remembered, was like the hero of Three Weeks in
its

hiding-place

a Helicopter

—a black man.

Drying her eyes, Lenina walked across the roof
to the lift.

On her way down to the twenty-seventh

floor she pulled out her soma bottle.

One gramme,

she decided, would not be enough; hers had been

more than a one-gramme affliction. But if she took
two grammes, she ran the risk of not waking up in
time to-morrow morning. She compromised and,
into her cupped left palm, shook out three half-

gramme tablets.

204

w.

CNrv^p^WO

CHAPTER TWELVE
Bernard had to shout through the locked door;
the Savage would not open.

"But everybody's there, waiting for you."
"Let them wait," came back the muffled voice
through the door.
"But you know quite well, John" (how difficult
it is to sound persuasive at the top of one's voice!)
"I asked them on purpose to meet you."
"You ought to have asked me first whether I
wanted to meet them."
"But you always came before, John."
"That's precisely

why

I

don't want to

come

again."
"Just

to

please

me,"

Bernard

bellowingly

wheedled. "Won't you come to please me?"

"No."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Do you seriously mean it?"
"Yes."
Despairingly, "But

what shall

I

do?" Bernard

wailed.

"Go to hell!" bawled the exasperated voice from
within.

"But the Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury is there to-night." Bernard was almost in tears.
"Aiyaa tdkwa!" It was only in Zufii that the Savage could adequately express what he felt about the
Arch-Community-Songster. "Hdni!" he added as
an afterthought; and then (with what derisive
ferocity!): "Sons eso tse-nd" And he spat on the
ground, as Pope might have done.
In the end Bernard had to slink back, diminished,
to his rooms and inform the impatient assembly that
the Savage would not be appearing that evening.
The news was received with indignation. The men
were furious at having been tricked into behaving
politely to this insignificant fellow with the unsa-

voury reputation and the heretical opinions. The
higher their position in the hierarchy, the deeper
their resentment.

"To play such a joke on me," the Arch-Songster
kept repeating, "on me!"
As for the women, they indignantly felt that they

—

had been had on false pretences had by a wretched
little man who had had alcohol poured into his
bottle by mistake by a creature with a Gamma-

—

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Minus physique. It was an outrage, and they said
so, more and more loudly. The Head Mistress of
Eton was particularly scathing.
Lenina alone said nothing. Pale, her blue eyes
clouded with an unwonted melancholy, she sat in
a corner, cut off from those who surrounded her by
an emotion which they did not share. She had come
to the party filled with a strange feeling of anxious

exultation.

"In a few minutes," she had said to her-

as she entered the room, "I shall be seeing him,

self,

talking to him, telling him" (for she had come with
her mind made up) "that I like him more than
anybody I've ever known. And then perhaps he'll

—

say

.

.

."

What would he say? The blood had rushed to her
cheeks.

"Why was he so strange the other night, after the
So queer. And yet I'm absolutely sure he

feelies?

."
I'm sure
It was at this moment that Bernard had made his
announcement; the Savage wasn't coming to the

really does rather like me.

.

.

party.

Lenina suddenly felt all the sensations normally
experienced at the beginning of a Violent Passion
Surrogate treatment
a breathless

—a sense of dreadful emptiness,

apprehension,

a nausea.

Her heart

seemed to stop beating.
"Perhaps it's because he doesn't like me," she said
to herself. And at once this possibility became an

BRAVE NEW WORLD
established certainty: John had refused to come be-

cause he didn't like her. He didn't like her.
"It really is a bit too thick," the Head Mistress
.

.

.

of Eton was saying to the Director of Crematoria
and Phosphorus Reclamation. "When I think that
I actually ..."

"Yes," came the voice of Fanny Crowne, "it's ab-

Some one I know
working
who
was
in the Embryo
knew some one
solutely true about the alcohol.

Store at the time. She said to my friend, and my
friend said to me ..."

"Too bad, too bad," said Henry Foster, sympawith the Arch-Community-Songster. "It
may interest you to know that our ex-Director was

thizing

on the point of transferring him to Iceland."
Pierced by every word that was spoken, the tight
balloon of Bernard's happy self-confidence was leaking from a thousand wounds. Pale, distraught, abject and agitated, he moved among his guests,
stammering incoherent apologies, assuring them
that next time the Savage would certainly be there,
begging them to sit down and take a carotene sandwich, a slice of vitamin A pate, a glass of champagnesurrogate.

They duly ate, but ignored him; drank

and were either rude to his face or talked to one
another about him, loudly and offensively, as though
he had not been there.
"And now, my friends," said the Arch-CommunitySongster of Canterbury, in that beautiful ringing

BRAVE NEW WORLD
voice with which he led the proceedings at Ford's
Day Celebrations, "Now, my friends, I think per-

haps the time has come ..." He rose, put down his
glass, brushed from his purple viscose waistcoat the
crumbs of a considerable collation, and walked
towards the door.
Bernard darted forward to intercept him.
It's very
"Must you really, Arch- Songster?
.

early still. I'd hoped you would

.

.

.

.

."

what hadn't he hoped, when Lenina confidentially told him that the Arch-CommunitySongster would accept an invitation if it were sent.
"He's really rather sweet, you know." And she had
shown Bernard the little golden zipper-fastening in
the form of a T which the Arch-Songster had given
her as a memento of the week-end she had spent at
Lambeth. To meet the Arch-Community-Songster of
Canterbury and Mr. Savage. Bernard had proclaimed
his triumph on every invitation card. But the Savage
had chosen this evening of all evenings to lock himself up in his room, to shout "Hani!" and even (it was
Yes,

lucky that Bernard didn't understand Zuni) "Sons eso
tse-nd!" What should have been the crowning moment of Bernard's whole career had turned out to be
the moment of his greatest humiliation.

"I'd so much hoped

.

.

."

he stammeringly re-

peated, looking up at the great dignitary with plead-

ing and distracted eyes.

"My young friend," said the Arch-Community-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Songster in a tone of loud and solemn severity; there
was a general silence. "Let me give you a word of
advice," He wagged his finger at Bernard. "Before
it's

too late.

came

A word of good advice." (His voice be-

sepulchral.)

"Mend your ways, my young

friend, mend your ways." He made the sign of the

T

over him and turned away. "Lenina, my dear," he
called in another tone. "Come with me."
Obediently, but unsmiling and (wholly insensible
of the honour done to her) without elation, Lenina

walked after him, out of the room. The other guests
followed at a respectful interval.

The last of them

slammed the door. Bernard was all alone.
Punctured, utterly deflated, he dropped into a
chair and, covering his face with his hands, began
to weep.

A few minutes later, however, he thought

better of it and took four tablets of soma.

Upstairs in his

room

the Savage was reading

Romeo and Juliet.

Lenina

and

the

Arch-Community-Songster

stepped out on to the roof of Lambeth Palace.

"Hurry up,

my young friend — I mean, Lenina,"

called the Arch-Songster impatiently
gates. Lenina,

from the lift

who had lingered for a moment to

BRAVE NEW WORLD
look at the moon, dropped her eyes and came hurry-

ing across the roof to rejoin him.

"A New Theory of Biology" was the title of the
paper which Mustapha Mond had just finished reading. He sat for some time, meditatively frowning,
then picked up his pen and wrote across the titlepage: "The author's mathematical treatment of the
conception of purpose is novel and highly ingenious,

but heretical and, so far as the present social order is
concerned, dangerous and potentially subversive.
Not to be published" He underlined the words. "The
author will be kept under supervision. His transference to the Marine Biological Station of St. Helena

may become necessary." A pity, he thought, as he
signed his name. It was a masterly piece of work.

But once you began admitting explanations in terms
of purpose

—well, you didn't know what the result

might be. It was the sort of idea that might easily
de-condition the more unsettled minds among the
higher castes

—make them lose their faith in happi-

ness as the Sovereign

Good and take to believing,

instead, that the goal was somewhere beyond, some-

where outside the present human sphere; that the
purpose of life was not the maintenance of wellbeing, but some intensification and refining of
consciousness, some enlargement of knowledge.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Which was, the Controller reflected, quite possibly
true.

But not, in the present circumstance, admissi-

ble.

He picked up his pen again, and under the

to be published" drew a second line,
and blacker than the first; then sighed.
"What fun it would be," he thought, "if one didn't

words "JVW
thicker

have to think about happiness!"

With closed eyes, his face shining with rapture,
John was softly declaiming to vacancy:
"0/ she doth teach the torches to burn bright.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night,

Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear;

Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear. ..."

The golden T lay shining on Lenina's bosom.
Sportively,

the Arch-Community-Songster caught

hold of

sportively he pulled, pulled. "I think,"

it,

said Lenina suddenly, breaking a long silence, "I'd

better take a couple of grammes of soma"

Bernard, by this time, was fast asleep and smiling
at the private paradise of his dreams. Smiling, smiling. But inexorably, every thirty seconds, the minute

hand of the electric clock above his bed jumped for-

BRA VE NEW WORLD
ward with an almost imperceptible click. Click,
And it was morning. Bernard
was back among the miseries of space and time. It
click, click, click

.

.

.

was in the lowest spirits that he taxied across to his
work at the Conditioning Centre. The intoxication
of success had evaporated; he was soberly his old
self; and by contrast with the temporary balloon of
these last weeks, the old self seemed unprecedentedly
heavier than the surrounding atmosphere.
To this deflated Bernard the Savage showed himself unexpectedly sympathetic.

"You're more like what you were at Malpais,"
he said, when Bernard had told him his plaintive
story.

"Do you remember when we first talked to-

gether? Outside the little house. You're like what

you were then."
"Because I'm unhappy again; that's why."
"Well, I'd rather be unhappy than have the sort
of false, lying happiness you were having here."
"I like that," said Bernard bitterly. "When it's
you who were the cause of it all. Refusing to come
to my party and so turning them all against me!"
He knew that what he was saying was absurd in its
injustice; he admitted inwardly, and at last even
aloud, the truth of all that the Savage now said about
the worthlessness of friends

who could be turned

upon so slight a provocation into persecuting enemies. But in spite of this knowledge and these admissions, in spite of the fact that his friend's support

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
and sympathy were now his only comfort, Bernard
continued perversely to nourish, along with his
quite genuine affection, a secret grievance against

campaign of small revenges to be wreaked upon him. Nourishing a
grievance against the Arch-Community-Songster
was useless; there was no possibility of being revenged on the Chief Bottler or the Assistant Predestinator. As a victim, the Savage possessed, for
Bernard, this enormous superiority over the others:
that he was accessible. One of the principal functions
of a friend is to suffer (in a milder and symbolic
the Savage, to meditate a

form) the punishments that we should like, but are
unable, to inflict upon our enemies.

Bernard's

other

victim-friend

was Helmholtz.

When, discomfited, he came and asked once more
for the friendship which, in his prosperity, he had

not thought it worth his while to preserve, Helmholtz
gave it; and gave it without a reproach, without a

comment, as though he had forgotten that there had
ever been a quarrel. Touched, Bernard felt himself
at the same time humiliated by this magnanimity
a magnanimity the more extraordinary and therefore the more humiliating in that it owed nothing to
soma and everything to Helmholtz's character. It
was the Helmholtz of daily life who forgot and forgave, not the Helmholtz of a half-gramme holiday.
Bernard was duly grateful (it was an enormous
comfort to have his friend again) and also duly

BRAVE NEW WORLD
resentful (it would be a pleasure to take some revenge

on Helmholtz for his generosity).
At their first meeting after the estrangement,
Bernard poured out the tale of his miseries and accepted consolation. It was not till some days later
that he learned, to his surprise and with a twinge of
shame, that he was not the only one who had been
in trouble. Helmholtz had also come into conflict
with Authority.

was over some rhymes," he explained. "I
was giving my usual course of Advanced Emotional Engineering for Third Year Students. Twelve
lectures, of which the seventh is about rhymes. 'On
the Use of Rhymes in Moral Propaganda and Ad"It

vertisement,' to be precise. I always illustrate

my

lecture with a lot of technical examples. This time I

thought I'd give them one I'd just written myself.
Pure madness, of course; but I couldn't resist it." He
laughed. "I was curious to see what their reactions
would be. Besides," he added more gravely, "I
wanted to do a bit of propaganda; I was trying to
engineer them into feeling as I'd felt when I wrote
the rhymes. Ford!" He laughed again. "What an
outcry there was! The Principal had me up and
threatened to hand me the immediate sack. I'm a

marked man."
"But what were your rhymes?" Bernard asked.
"They were about being alone."
Bernard's eyebrows went up.

BRAVE NEW WORLD^
"I'll recite them to you, if you like."

And Helm-

holtz began:
'
'

Yesterday's committee,
Sticks, but a broken drum.

Midnight in the City,
Flutes in a vacuum,

Shut lips, sleeping faces,

Every stopped machine,

The dumb and littered places
Where crowds have been:
.
.

.

All silences rejoice,

Weep {loudly or low),
Speak

—

but with the voice

Of whom, I do not know.
Absence, say, of Susan's,

Absence ofEgerid's

Arms and respective bosoms,
Lips and, ah, posteriors,
Slowly form a presence;

Whose? and, I ask, of what
So absurd an essence,

That something, which is not,
Nevertheless should populate

Empty night more solidly
Than that with which we copulate,

Why should it seem so squalidly?
Well, I gave them that as an example,

and they

reported me to the Principal."

"I'm not surprised,"

said Bernard.

"It's

flatly

against all their sleep-teaching. Remember, they've

had at least a quarter of a million warnings against
solitude."

BRA VE NEW WORLD
"I know. But I thought I'd like to see what the
effect would be."

"Well, you've seen now."
Helmholtz only laughed. "I feel," he said, after
a silence, "as though I were just beginning to have
something to write about. As though I were beginning to be able to use that power I feel I've
got inside

me —that

extra,

latent

power.

Some-

thing seems to be coming to me." In spite of all his
troubles, he seemed,

Bernard thought, profoundly

happy.
Helmholtz and the Savage took to one another at
once. So cordially indeed that Bernard felt a sharp
pang of jealousy. In all these weeks he had never
come to so close an intimacy with the Savage as
Helmholtz immediately achieved. Watching them,
listening to their talk, he found himself sometimes
resentfully wishing that he had never brought them
together. He was ashamed of his jealousy and alter-

nately made efforts of will

and took soma to keep
himself from feeling it. But the efforts were not very
successful; and between the soma-ho\ida.ys there were,

of necessity, intervals. The odious sentiment kept on
returning.

At his third meeting with the Savage, Helmholtz
recited his rhymes on Solitude.
"What do you think of them?" he asked when he
had done.
The Savage shook his head. "Listen to this" was

BRAVE NEW WORLD
and unlocking the drawer in which he
kept his mouse-eaten book, he opened and read:
his answer;

"Let the bird of loudest lay,
On the sole Arabian tree,

Herald sad and trumpet be

.

.

."

Helmholtz listened with a growing excitement.

At "sole Arabian tree" he started; at "thou shrieking
harbinger" he smiled with sudden pleasure; at
"every fowl of tyrant wing" the blood rushed up into
his cheeks; but at "defunctive music" he turned pale

and trembled with an unprecedented emotion. The
Savage read on:
"Property was thus appalVd,

That the self was not the same;
Single nature's double name

Neither two nor one was calVd

"Reason in itself confounded
Saw division grow together ..."

"Orgy-porgy!" said Bernard, interrupting the
reading with a loud, unpleasant laugh. "It's just a
Solidarity Service hymn." He was revenging himself

on his two friends for liking one another more than
they liked him.
In the course of their next two or three meetings
he frequently repeated this little act of vengeance.

was simple and, since both Helmholtz and the
Savage were dreadfully pained by the shattering and

It

defilement of a favourite poetic crystal, extremely

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
effective.

In the end, Helmholtz threatened to kick

him out of the room if he dared to interrupt again.

And yet, strangely enough, the next interruption,
the most disgraceful of all,

came from Helmholtz

himself.

The Savage was reading Romeo and Juliet aloud
reading

(for all the

time he was seeing himself as

Romeo and Lenina as Juliet) with an intense and
quivering passion. Helmholtz had listened to the
scene of the lovers' first meeting with a puzzled inter-

The scene in the orchard had delighted him with
its poetry; but the sentiments expressed had made
him smile. Getting into such a state about having a
est.

—

it seemed rather ridiculous. But, taken detail
by verbal detail, what a superb piece of emotional
engineering! "That old fellow," he said, "he makes
our best propaganda technicians look absolutely
silly." The Savage smiled triumphantly and resumed
his reading. All went tolerably well until, in the last
scene of the third act, Capulet and Lady Capulet
began to bully Juliet to marry Paris. Helmholtz had
been restless throughout the entire scene; but when,
pathetically mimed by the Savage, Juliet cried out:

girl

"Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,

That sees into the bottom of my grief?
sweet my mother, cast me not away:
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Or, ifyou do not, make the bridal bed
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies

.

.

."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
when Juliet said this, Helmholtz broke out in an
explosion of uncontrollable guffawing.

The mother and

(grotesque

father

forcing the daughter to have

obscenity)

some one she didn't

want! And the idiotic girl not saying that she was
having some one else whom (for the moment, at any
rate) she preferred! In its smutty absurdity the situation was irresistibly comical. He had managed, with
a heroic effort, to hold down the mounting pressure
of his hilarity; but "sweet mother" (in the Savage's
tremulous tone of anguish) and the reference to Tybalt lying dead, but evidently uncremated and wasting his phosphorus on a dim monument, were too
much for him. He laughed and laughed till the tears
streamed down his face quenchlessly laughed
while, pale with a sense of outrage, the Savage
looked at him over the top of his book and then, as

—

the laughter

still

continued, closed it indignantly,

got up and, with the gesture of one who removes his
pearl from before swine, locked it away in its drawer.
"And yet," said Helmholtz when, having recovered breath enough to apologize, he had molli-

Savage into listening to his explanations,
"I know quite well that one needs ridiculous, mad
situations like that; one can't write really well about
anything else. Why was that old fellow such a marvellous propaganda technician? Because he had so
fied the

many insane,

excruciating things to get excited

about. You've got to be hurt and upset; otherwise

BRAVE NEW WORLD
you can't think of the really good, penetrating,
X-rayish phrases. But fathers and mothers!" He
shook his head. "You can't expect me to keep a
straight face about fathers and mothers. And who's
going to get excited about a boy having a girl or not
having her?" (The Savage winced; but Helmholtz,
who was staring pensively at the floor, saw nothing.)
"No," he concluded, with a sigh, "it won't do. We
need some other kind of madness and violence. But
what? What? Where can one find it?" He was silent;
then, shaking his head, "I don't know," he said at
last, "I don't know."

221

ry^fe^yn

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Henry Foster loomed up through the twilight of
the Embryo Store.

"Like to come to a feely this evening?"
Lenina shook her head without speaking.
"Going out with some one else?" It interested him
to know which of his friends was being had by which
other. "Is it Benito?" he questioned.
She shook her head again.
Henry detected the weariness in those purple eyes,
the pallor beneath that glaze of lupus, the sadness
at the corners of the unsmiling crimson mouth.
"You're not feeling ill, are you?" he asked, a trifle
anxiously, afraid that she might be suffering from
one of the few remaining infectious diseases.
Yet once more Lenina shook her head.
"Anyhow, you ought to go and see the doctor,"
said Henry. "A doctor a day keeps the jim-jams

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
away," he added heartily, driving home his hypnopaedic adage with a clap on the shoulder.

"Perhaps
you need a Pregnancy Substitute," he suggested.
"Or else an extra-strong V.P.S. treatment. Sometimes, you know, the standard passion surrogate isn't
quite

.

.

."

"Oh, for Ford's sake," said Lenina, breaking her
stubborn silence, "shut up!" And she turned back
to her neglected embryos.

A V.P.S. treatment indeed!

She would have

laughed, if she hadn't been on the point of crying.
As though she hadn't got enough V.P. of her own!
She sighed profoundly as she refilled her syringe.

"John," she murmured to herself, "John ..." Then
"My Ford," she wondered, "have I given this one
sleeping sickness injection, or haven't I?" She
simply couldn't remember. In the end, she decided

its

not to run the risk of letting it have a second dose,

and moved down the line to the next bottle.
Twenty-two years, eight months, and four days
from that moment, a promising young Alpha-Minus
administrator at Mwanza-Mwanza was to die of trypanosomiasis

—the

first

case for over half a century.

Sighing, Lenina went on with her work.

An hour later, in the Changing Room, Fanny was
energetically protesting. "But it's absurd to let yourself get into

a state like this. Simply absurd," she

repeated. "And what about?

"But he's the one I want."

A man

one man."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"As though there weren't millions of other men in
the world."

"But I don't want them."
"How can you know till you've tried?"
"I have tried."
"But how many?" asked Fanny, shrugging her
shoulders contemptuously. "One, two?"
"Dozens. But," shaking her head, "it wasn't any
good," she added.
"Well, you must persevere," said Fanny sententiously. But it was obvious that her confidence in her
own prescriptions had been shaken, "Nothing can be
achieved without perseverance."
"But meanwhile ..."

"Don't think of him."
"I can't help it."

"Take soma, then."
"I do."
"Well, go on."

"But in the intervals I still like him. I shall always
like him."
"Well, if that's the case," said Fanny, with decision, "why don't you just go and take him.
Whether he wants it or no."
"But if you knew how terribly queer he was!"
"All the more reason for taking a firm line."
"It's all very well to say that."

"Don't stand any nonsense. Act." Fanny's voice
was a trumpet; she might have been a Y.W.F.A.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
lecturer giving an evening talk to adolescent Beta-

Minuses. "Yes, act

—at once. Do

it

now."

"I'd be scared," said Lenina.

"Well, you've only got to take half a gramme of

soma first. And now I'm going to have my bath."
She marched off, trailing her towel.

The bell rang, and the Savage, who was impatiently hoping that Helmholtz would come that
afternoon (for having at last made up his mind to
talk to Helmholtz about Lenina, he could not bear

postpone his confidences a moment longer),
jumped up and ran to the door.
"I had a premonition it was you, Helmholtz," he
shouted as he opened.
to

On the threshold, in a white acetate-satin sailor
suit,

and with a round white cap rakishly tilted

over her left ear, stood Lenina.

"Oh!" said the Savage, as though some one had
struck him a heavy blow.

Half a gramme had been enough to make Lenina
forget her fears and her embarrassments. "Hullo,
John," she said, smiling, and walked past him into the
room. Automatically he closed the door and followed
her. Lenina sat down. There was a long silence.
"You don't seem very glad to see me, John," she
said at last.

"Not glad?" The Savage looked at her reproach-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
then suddenly fell on his knees before her
and, taking Lenina's hand, reverently kissed it.
"Not glad? Oh, if you only knew," he whispered
and, venturing to raise his eyes to her face, "Ad-

fully;

mired Lenina," he went on, "indeed the top of admiration, worth what's dearest in the world." She
smiled at him with a luscious tenderness. "Oh, you
so perfect" (she was leaning towards him with parted
lips), "so perfect and so peerless are created"

(nearer

and nearer) "of every creature's best." Still nearer.

The Savage suddenly scrambled to his feet. "That's
why," he said, speaking with averted face, "I
wanted to do something first ... I mean, to show I
was worthy of you. Not that I could ever really be
that. But at any rate to show I wasn't absolutely unworthy. I wanted to do something."
"Why should you think it necessary ..." Lenina
began, but left the sentence unfinished. There was
a note of irritation in her voice. When one has leant
forward, nearer and nearer, with parted lips only
to find oneself, quite suddenly, as a clumsy oaf
scrambles to his feet, leaning towards nothing at all
well, there is a reason, even with half a gramme of
soma circulating in one's blood-stream, a genuine

—

—

reason for annoyance.
"At Malpais," the

Savage

was

incoherently

mumbling, "you had to bring her the skin of a mountain lion I mean, when you wanted to marry some

—

one. Or else a wolf."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"There aren't any lions in England," Lenina almost snapped.
"And even if there were," the Savage added,
with sudden contemptuous resentment, "people
would kill them out of helicopters, I suppose, with
poison gas or something. I wouldn't do that, Lenina."

He squared his shoulders, he ventured to look at her
and was met with a stare of annoyed incomprehension. Confused, "I'll do anything," he went on, more

and more incoherently. "Anything you tell me.
There be some sports are painful you know. But
their labour delight in them sets off. That's what I
feel. I mean I'd sweep the floor if you wanted."
"But we've got vacuum cleaners here," said Le-

—

nina in bewilderment. "It isn't necessary."

"No, of course it isn't necessary. But some kinds of
baseness are nobly undergone. I'd like to undergo
something nobly. Don't you see?"
."
"But if there are vacuum cleaners
.

.

"That's not the point."

"And Epsilon Semi-Morons to work them," she
went on, "well, really, why?"
"Why? But for you, for you. Just to show that
I

.

.

."

"And what on earth vacuum cleaners have got
to do with lions

.

.

."

."
"To show how much
"Or lions with being glad to see me
.

.

getting more and more exasperated.

.

.

."

She was

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"How much I love you, Lenina," he brought out
almost desperately.

An emblem of the inner tide of startled elation,
the blood rushed

up

into Lenina's cheeks.

"Do

you mean it, John?"
"But I hadn't meant to say so," cried the Savage,
clasping his hands in a kind of agony. "Not until
.

.

.

Listen, Lenina; in Malpais people get married."

"Get what?" The irritation had begun to creep
back into her voice. What was he talking about
now?
"For always. They make a promise to live together
for always."

"What a horrible idea!" Lenina was genuinely
shocked.

"Outliving beauty's outward with a mind that
doth renew swifter than blood decays."

"What?"
"It's like that in

Shakespeare too. Tf thou dost

break her virgin knot before all sanctimonious cere"
.'
monies may with full and holy rite
"For Ford's sake, John, talk sense. I can't under.

.

stand a word you say. First it's vacuum cleaners;
then it's knots. You're driving me crazy." She

jumped up and, as though afraid that he might run
away from her physically, as well as with his mind,
caught him by the wrist. "Answer me this question:
do you really like me, or don't you?"
There was a moment's silence; then, in a very low

BRA VE NEW WORLD
voice, "I love you more than anything in the world,"

he said.

"Then why on earth didn't you say so?" she cried,
and so intense was her exasperation that she drove
her sharp nails into the skin of his wrist. "Instead
of drivelling away about knots and vacuum cleaners

and lions, and making me miserable for weeks and
weeks."

She released his hand and flung it angrily away
from her.
"If I didn't like you so much," she said, "I'd be
furious with you."
And suddenly her arms were round his neck; he
felt her lips soft against his own. So deliciously soft,
so warm and electric that inevitably he found himself
thinking of the embraces in Three Weeks in a Helicopter.
Ooh! ooh! the stereoscopic blonde and aah!
the more than real blackamoor. Horror, horror,
horror ... he tried to disengage himself; but Lenina
tightened her embrace.
"Why didn't you say so?" she whispered, drawing
back her face to look at him. Her eyes were tenderly
reproachful.

"The murkiest den, the most opportune place"
(the voice of conscience thundered poetically), "the

strongest suggestion our worser genius can, shall

never melt mine honour into lust. Never, never!"

he resolved.

"You silly boy!" she was saying. "I wanted you

BRAVE NEW WORLD
so

much. And if you wanted me too, why didn't

you?

.

.

."

"But, Lenina ..." he began protesting; and as she

immediately untwined her arms, as she stepped away
from him, he thought, for a moment, that she had
taken his unspoken hint. But when she unbuckled
her white patent cartridge belt and hung it carefully
over the back of a chair, he began to suspect that he
had been mistaken.
"Lenina!" he repeated apprehensively.
She put her hand to her neck and gave a long
vertical pull; her white sailor's blouse was ripped to
the hem; suspicion condensed into a too, too solid
certainty. "Lenina, what are you doing?"
Zip, zip! Her answer was wordless. She stepped
out of her bell-bottomed trousers. Her zippicamiknicks were a pale shell pink. The Arch- CommunitySongster's golden T dangled at her breast.
"For those milk paps that through the window
bars bore at men's eyes. ..." The singing, thundering, magical words made her seem doubly dangerous, doubly alluring. Soft, soft, but how piercing!
boring and drilling into reason, tunnelling through
resolution. "The strongest oaths are straw to the fire
i'

the blood. Be more abstemious, or else

.

.

."

Zip The rounded pinkness fell apart like a neatly
!

divided apple. A wriggle of the arms, a lifting first
of the right foot, then the left: the zippicamiknicks

were lying lifeless and as though deflated on the floor.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
Still wearing her shoes and socks, and her rakishly

tilted

round white cap, she advanced towards him.

"Darling. Darling! If only you'd said so before!"

She held out her arms.
But instead of also saying "Darling!" and holding
out his arms, the Savage retreated in terror, flapping
his hands at her as though he were trying to scare
away some intruding and dangerous animal. Four
backward steps, and he was brought to bay against
the wall.

"Sweet!" said Lenina and, laying her hands on
his shoulders, pressed herself against him. "Put your
arms round me," she commanded. "Hug me till
you drug me, honey." She too had poetry at her
command, knew words that sang and were spells and
beat drums. "Kiss me"; she closed her eyes, she let
her voice sink to a sleepy murmur, "kiss me till I'm
in a coma. Hug me, honey, snuggly ..."
The Savage caught her by the wrists, tore her
hands from his shoulders, thrust her roughly away
at arm's length.
"Ow, you're hurting me, you're
oh!" She was
suddenly silent. Terror had made her forget the
,

pain.

.

.

Opening her eyes, she had seen his face

—no,

not his face, a ferocious stranger's, pale, distorted,
twitching with some insane, inexplicable fury.

Aghast, "But what is it, John?" she whispered. He

did not answer, but only stared into her face with
those mad eyes. The hands that held her wrists were

BRAVE NEW WORLD
trembling.

He breathed

deeply and irregularly.

Faint almost to imperceptibility, but appalling, she
suddenly heard the grinding of his teeth. "What is
it?" she almost screamed.

And as though awakened by her cry he caught her
by the shoulders and shook her. "Whore!" he
shouted. "Whore! Impudent strumpet!"
"Oh, don't, do-on't," she protested in a voice
made grotesquely tremulous by his shaking.
"Whore!"
"Plea-ease."

"Damned whore!"
." she began.
"A gra-amme is be-etter
The Savage pushed her away with such force that
.

.

she staggered and fell. "Go," he shouted, standing

over her menacingly, "get out of my sight or I'll
kill you." He clenched his fists.

Lenina raised her arm to cover her face. "No,
please don't, John ..."

"Hurry up. Quick!"

One arm still raised, and following his every
movement with a terrified eye, she scrambled to her
feet and still crouching, still covering her head,
made a dash for the bathroom.
The noise of that prodigious slap by which her
departure was accelerated was like a pistol shot.
"Ow!" Lenina bounded forward.
Safely locked into the bathroom, she had leisure
to take stock of her injuries. Standing with her back

BRA VE NEW WORLD
to the mirror, she twisted her head. Looking over her
left

shoulder she could see the imprint of an open

hand standing out distinct and crimson on the pearly
Gingerly she rubbed the wounded spot.
Outside, in the other room, the Savage was striding up and down, marching, marching to the drums
and music of magical words. "The wren goes to't
and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight."
Maddeningly they rumbled in his ears. "The fitchew
nor the soiled horse goes to't with a more riotous
flesh.

Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
though women all above. But to the girdle do the
appetite.

gods inherit. Beneath is all the fiend's. There's hell,
there's darkness, there is the sulphurous pit, burning,

scalding, stench, consumption; fie, fie, fie, pah, pah!

Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to
sweeten my imagination."
"John!" ventured a small ingratiating voice from
the bathroom. "John!"

"O thou weed, who art so lovely fair and smell'st
so sweet that the sense aches at thee. Was this most

goodly book made to write 'whore' upon? Heaven
stops the nose at it

.

.

."

But her perfume still hung about him, his jacket
was white with the powder that had scented her
velvety body.
"Impudent strumpet, impudent
strumpet, impudent strumpet." The inexorable
."
rhythm beat itself out. "Impudent
"John, do you think I might have my clothes?"
.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
He picked up the bell-bottomed trousers, the
blouse, the zippicamiknicks.

"Open!" he ordered, kicking the door.
"No, I won't." The voice was frightened and
defiant.

"Well,

how do you expect me to give them to

you?"
"Push them through the ventilator over the door."

He did what she suggested and returned to his
uneasy pacing of the room. "Impudent strumpet,
impudent strumpet. The devil Luxury with his fat
rump and potato finger ..."
"John."

He would not answer. "Fat rump and potato
finger."

"John."

"What is it?" he asked gruffly.
"I wonder if you'd mind giving me my Malthusian belt."

Lenina sat listening to the footsteps in the other
room, wondering, as she listened, how long he was
likely to go tramping up and down like that; whether
she would have to wait until he left the flat; or if it
would be safe, after allowing his madness a reasonable time to subside, to open the bathroom door and
make a dash for it.
She was interrupted in the midst of these uneasy
speculations by the sound of the telephone bell ringing in the other room. Abruptly the tramping

BRAVE NEW WORLD
ceased. She heard the voice of the Savage parleying

with silence.
"Hullo."
'Yes."

'If I

do not usurp myself, I am."

"Yes, didn't you hear

me say so? Mr. Savage

speaking."

'What? Who's ill? Of course it interests me."

"But is it serious?
once.

.

.

Is

she really bad?

I'll

go at

."

"Not in her rooms any more? Where has she been
taken?"
'Oh, my God! What's the address?"

"Three Park Lane—is that it? Three? Thanks."
Lenina heard the click of the replaced receiver,
then hurrying steps. A door slammed. There was
silence. Was he really gone?
With an infinity of precautions she opened the
door a quarter of an inch; peeped through the crack;
was encouraged by the view of emptiness; opened
a little further, and put her whole head out; finally

BRAVE NEW WORLD
tiptoed into the room; stood for a few seconds with

beating heart, listening, listening; then
darted to the front door, opened, slipped through,
strongly

slammed, ran. It was not till she was in the lift and
actually dropping down the well that she began to
feel herself secure.

236

w.

rw?«V-YO

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
The Park Lane Hospital for the Dying was a sixtystory tower of primrose tiles. As the Savage stepped

out of his taxicopter a convoy of gaily-coloured aerial
hearses rose whirring from the roof and darted away

bound for the Slough
Crematorium. At the lift gates the presiding porter
gave him the information he required, and he
dropped down to Ward 81 (a Galloping Senility
ward, the porter explained) on the seventeenth floor.
It was a large room bright with sunshine and yellow paint, and containing twenty beds, all occupied.
Linda was dying in company in company and with
all the modern conveniences. The air was continuously alive with gay synthetic melodies. At the foot
across the Park, westwards,

—

moribund occupant,
was a television box. Television was left on, a running tap, from morning till night. Every quarter of
of every bed, confronting

its

BRAVE NEW WORLD
an hour the prevailing perfume of the room was
automatically changed.
nurse,

door,

"We try," explained the

who had taken charge of the Savage at the
"we try to create a thoroughly pleasant at-

—

mosphere here something between a first-class hotel
and a feely-palace, if you take my meaning."

"Where is she?" asked the Savage, ignoring these
polite explanations.

The nurse was offended. "You are in a hurry," she
said.

"Is there any hope?" he asked.

"You mean, of her not dying?" (He nodded.)
"No, of course there isn't. When somebody's sent
." Startled by the expression of
here, there's no
distress on his pale face, she suddenly broke off.
"Why, whatever is the matter?" she asked. She was
not accustomed to this kind of thing in visitors.
(Not that there were many visitors anyhow: or any
reason why there should be many visitors.) "You're
not feeling ill, are you?"
He shook his head. "She's my mother," he said
.

.

in a scarcely audible voice.

The nurse glanced at him with startled, horrified
eyes; then quickly looked away. From throat to
temple she was all one hot blush.
"Take me to her," said the Savage, making an
effort to speak in an ordinary tone.
Still blushing, she led the way down the ward.
Faces still fresh and unwithered (for senility galloped

BRAVE NEW WORLD
so hard that it had no time to age the cheeks

—only

the heart and brain) turned as they passed. Their
progress was followed by the blank, incurious eyes of

second infancy. The Savage shuddered as he looked.
Linda was lying in the last of the long row of beds,
next to the wall. Propped up on pillows, she was
watching the Semi-finals of the South American
Riemann-Surface Tennis Championship, which
were being played in silent and diminished reproduction on the screen of the television box at the foot of

the bed. Hither and thither across their square of

illumined glass the little figures noiselessly darted,
like fish in an aquarium

—the

silent but agitated in-

habitants of another world.

Linda looked on, vaguely and uncomprehendingly
smiling. Her pale, bloated face wore an expression
of imbecile happiness. Every now and then her eyelids closed, and for a few seconds she seemed to be
dozing. Then with a little start she would wake up
again wake up to the aquarium antics of the Tennis Champions, to the Super- Vox-Wurlitzeriana
rendering of "Hug me till you drug me, honey," to
the warm draught of verbena that came blowing
through the ventilator above her head would wake
to these things, or rather to a dream of which these
things, transformed and embellished by the soma in
her blood, were the marvellous constituents, and
smile once more her broken and discoloured smile of

—

—

infantile contentment.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Well, I must go," said the nurse. "I've got my

batch of children coming. Besides, there's Number
3." She pointed up the ward. "Might go off any
minute now. Well, make yourself comfortable." She
walked briskly away.
The Savage sat down beside the bed.
"Linda," he whispered, taking her hand.
At the sound of her name, she turned. Her vague
eyes brightened with recognition. She squeezed his
hand, she smiled, her lips moved; then quite suddenly her head fell forward. She was asleep. He sat
watching her seeking through the tired flesh, seeking and finding that young, bright face which had
stooped over his childhood in Malpais, remembering
(and he closed his eyes) her voice, her movements,
all the events of their life together. "Streptocock-Gee
." How beautiful her singing had
to Banbury T

—

.

been!

.

And those childish rhymes, how magically

strange and mysterious!

A, B, C, vitamin D:
The fat's in the liver, the cod's in the sea.

He felt the hot tears welling up behind his eyelids
as he recalled the words and Linda's voice as she re-

peated them. And then the reading lessons: The tot
is in the pot, the cat is on the mat; and the Elementary Instructions for Beta Workers in the

Embryo

Store. And long evenings by the fire or, in summer

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
time, on the roof of the little house, when she told

him those stories about the Other Place, outside the
Reservation: that beautiful, beautiful Other Place,

whose memory, as of a heaven, a paradise of goodness and loveliness, he still kept whole and intact,
undented by contact with the reality of this real
London, these actual civilized men and women.
A sudden noise of shrill voices made him open his
eyes and, after hastily brushing away the tears, look

round. What seemed an interminable stream of identical eight-year-old male twins was pouring into the

room. Twin after twin, twin after twin, they came
a nightmare. Their faces, their repeated face for
there was only one between the lot of them pug-

—
—

and pale goggling eyes.
Their uniform was khaki. All their mouths hung
open. Squealing and chattering they entered. In a
moment, it seemed, the ward was maggoty with
them. They swarmed between the beds, clambered
over, crawled under, peeped into the television
gishly stared, all nostrils

boxes, made faces at the patients.

Linda astonished and rather alarmed them. A
group stood clustered at the foot of her bed, staring
with the frightened and stupid curiosity of animals
suddenly confronted by the unknown.
"Oh, look, look!" They spoke in low, scared
voices. "Whatever is the matter with her? Why is
she so fat?"

They had never seen a face like hers before

—had

BRAVE NEW WORLD
never seen a face that was not youthful and tautskinned, a body that had ceased to be slim and upright. All these moribund sexagenarians had the

appearance of childish girls. At forty-four, Linda
seemed, by contrast, a monster of flaccid and distorted senility.
"Isn't she awful?" came the whispered comments.

"Look at her teeth!"
Suddenly from under the bed a pug-faced twin
popped up between John's chair and the wall, and
began peering into Linda's sleeping face.
"I say ..." he began; but his sentence ended prematurely in a squeal. The Savage had seized him by
the collar, lifted him clear over the chair and, with a
smart box on the ears, sent him howling away.
His yells brought the Head Nurse hurrying to the
rescue.

"What have you been doing to him?" she demanded fiercely. "I won't have you striking the
children."

"Well then, keep them away from this bed." The
Savage's voice was trembling with indignation.
"What are these filthy little brats doing here at all?
It's disgraceful!"

"Disgraceful? But

being

what do you mean? They're

death-conditioned.

And

I

tell

you,"

she

warned him truculently, "if I have any more of your
interference with their conditioning, I'll send for the

porters and have you thrown out."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
The Savage rose to his feet and took a couple of
steps towards her. His movements and the expression

on his face were so menacing that the nurse fell back
in terror. With a great effort he checked himself and,
without speaking, turned away and sat down again
by the bed.
Reassured, but with a dignity that was a trifle
shrill and uncertain, "I've warned you," said the
nurse, "so mind." Still, she led the too inquisitive
twins away and made them join in the game of huntthe-zipper, which had been organized by one of her
colleagues at the other end of the room.
"Run along now and have your cup of caffeine
solution, dear," she said to the other nurse. The exercise of authority restored her confidence, made her
feel better.

"Now children!" she called.

Linda had stirred uneasily, had opened her eyes
for a moment, looked vaguely around, and then once
more dropped off to sleep. Sitting beside her, the
Savage tried hard to recapture his mood of a few
minutes before. "A, B, C, vitamin D," he repeated
to himself, as though the words were a spell that
would restore the dead past to life. But the spell was
ineffective. Obstinately the beautiful memories refused to rise; there was only a hateful resurrection of
jealousies and uglinesses and miseries. Pope with
the blood trickling down from his cut shoulder; and
Linda hideously asleep, and the flies buzzing round
the spilt mescal on the floor beside the bed; and the

BRAVE NEW WORLD
boys calling those names as she passed.
Ah, no,
no! He shut his eyes, he shook his head in strenuous
.

.

.

denial of these memories. "A, B, C, vitamin

D

.

.

."

He tried to think of those times when he sat on her
knees and she put her arms about him and sang, over

and over again, rocking him, rocking him to sleep.
."
"A, B, C, vitamin D, vitamin D, vitamin D
Vox-Wurlitzeriana
The Superhad risen to a sobbing crescendo; and suddenly the verbena gave
place, in the scent-circulating system, to an intense
patchouli. Linda stirred, woke up, stared for a few
.

.

seconds bewilderedly at the Semi-finalists, then, lifting

her face, sniffed once or twice at the newly perfumed
air and suddenly smiled
a smile of childish ecstasy.
"Pope!" she murmured, and closed her eyes. "Oh,
." She sighed and let herself
I do so .like it, I do

—

.

.

sink back into the pillows.

The Savage spoke imploringly.
"Don't you know me?" He had tried so hard, had
done his very best; why wouldn't she allow him to
"But, Linda!"

forget?

He squeezed her limp hand almost with

violence, as though he would force her to come back

from

this

dream of ignoble pleasures, from these

—

base and hateful memories back into the present,
back into reality: the appalling present, the awful

—

reality
but sublime, but significant, but desperately
important precisely because of the imminence of
that which made them so fearful. "Don't you know
me, Linda?"

BRAVE NEW WORLD
He felt the faint answering pressure of her hand.
The tears. started into his eyes. He bent over her and
kissed her.

Her lips moved. "Pope!" she whispered again,
and it was as though he had had a pailful of ordure
thrown in his face.
Anger suddenly boiled up in him. Balked for the
second time, the passion of his grief had found
another outlet, was transformed into a passion of
agonized rage.

"But I'm John!" he shouted. "I'm John!" And
in his furious misery he actually caught her by the
shoulder and shook her.
Linda's eyes fluttered open; she saw him, knew
him "John!" but situated the real face, the real
and violent hands, in an imaginary world among
the inward and private equivalents of patchouli and

—

—

—

the Super-Wurlitzer, among the transfigured mem-

and the strangely transposed sensations that
constituted the universe of her dream. She knew him
for John, her son, but fancied him an intruder into
that paradisal Malpais where she had been spending
her jwTZfl-holiday with Pope. He was angry because
she liked Pope, he was shaking her because Pope
was there in the bed as though there were something wrong, as though all civilized people didn't do
." Her
the same. "Every one belongs to every
voice suddenly died into an almost inaudible breathless croaking. Her mouth fell open: she made a desories

—

.

.

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
perate effort to fill her lungs with air. But it was as

though she had forgotten how to breathe. She tried
but no sound came; only the terror of her
staring eyes revealed what she was suffering. Her
hands went to her throat, then clawed at the air
the air she could no longer breathe, the air that,
to cry out

—

for her, had ceased to exist.

The Savage was on his feet, bent over her. "What
Linda? What is it?" His voice was imploring; it

is it,

was as though he were begging to be reassured.
The look she gave him was charged with an unspeakable terror with terror and, it seemed to him,
reproach. She tried to raise herself in bed, but fell
back on to the pillows. Her face was horribly dis-

—

torted, her lips blue.

The Savage turned and ran up the ward.
"Quick, quick!" he shouted. "Quick!"
Standing in the centre of a ring of zipper-hunting
twins, the Head Nurse looked round. The first moment's astonishment gave place almost instantly to
disapproval. "Don't shout! Think of the little ones,"
she said, frowning. "You might decondition
But what are you doing?" He had broken through
.

the ring. "Be careful!"

.

.

A child was yelling.

"Quick, quick!" He caught her by the sleeve,
dragged her after him. "Quick! Something's happened. I've killed her."
By the time they were back at the end of the ward

Linda was dead.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
The Savage stood for a moment in frozen silence,
then fell on his knees beside the bed and, covering
his face with his hands, sobbed uncontrollably.

The nurse stood irresolute, looking now at the
kneeling figure by the bed (the scandalous exhibition!) and now (poor children!) at the twins who
had stopped their hunting of the zipper and were

staring from the other end of the ward, staring with
all their eyes and nostrils at the shocking scene that

was being enacted round Bed 20. Should she speak
to him? try to bring him back to a sense of decency?
remind him of where he was? of what fatal mischief
he might do to these poor innocents? Undoing all
their wholesome death-conditioning with this disgusting outcry as though death were something
terrible, as though any one mattered as much as
all that! It might give them the most disastrous
ideas about the subject, might upset them into re-

—

acting in the entirely wrong, the utterly anti-social
way.
She stepped forward, she touched him on the
shoulder. "Can't you behave?" she said in a low,
angry voice. But, looking round, she saw that half a
dozen twins were already on their feet and advancing
down the ward. The circle was disintegrating. In
another moment
No, the risk was too great; the
whole Group might be put back six or seven months
in its conditioning. She hurried back towards her
.

menaced charges.

.

.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"Now, who wants a chocolate eclair?" she asked
in a loud, cheerful tone.

"Me!"

yelled the entire

Bokanovsky Group in

chorus. Bed 20 was completely forgotten.

"Oh, God, God, God

." the

Savage kept repeating to himself. In the chaos of grief and remorse
that filled his mind it was the one articulate word.
."
"God!" he whispered it aloud. "God
"Whatever is he saying?" said a voice, very near,
distinct and shrill through the warblings of the
.

.

.

.

Super-Wurlitzer.

The Savage violently started and, uncovering his
looked round. Five khaki twins, each with the
stump of a long eclair in his right hand, and their
face,

identical faces variously smeared with liquid chocolate, were standing in a row, puggily goggling at him.

They met his eyes and simultaneously grinned.
One of them pointed with his eclair butt.
"Is she dead?" he asked.

The Savage stared at them for a moment in silence. Then in silence he rose to his feet, in silence
slowly walked towards the door.
"Is

she

dead?" repeated the inquisitive twin

trotting at his side.

The Savage looked down at him and still without
speaking pushed him away. The twin fell on the
floor and at once began to howl. The Savage did not
even look round.
248

O^^YI
w.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The menial staff of the Park Lane Hospital for the
Dying consisted of one hundred and sixty-two Deltas
divided into two Bokanovsky Groups of eighty-four
red-headed female and seventy-eight dark dolychocephalic male twins, respectively. At six, when their
working day was over, the two Groups assembled in
the vestibule of the Hospital and were served by the
Deputy Sub-Bursar with their soma ration.

From the lift the Savage stepped out into the
midst of them. But his mind was elsewhere

—with

death, with his grief, and his remorse; mechanically,

without consciousness of what he was doing, he
began to shoulder his way through the crowd.

"Who are you pushing? Where do you think
you're going?"

High, low, from a multitude of separate throats,
only two voices squeaked or growled. Repeated

BRAVE NEW WORLD
though by a train of mirrors, two
one a hairless and freckled moon haloed in
orange, the other a thin, beaked bird-mask, stubbly
with two days' beard, turned angrily towards him.
Their words and, in his ribs, the sharp nudging of
elbows, broke through his unawareness. He woke
once more to external reality, looked round him,
knew what he saw knew it, with a sinking sense of
indefinitely, as
faces,

—

horror and disgust, for the recurrent delirium of his

days and nights, the nightmare of swarming indistinguishable sameness. Twins, twins.

.

.

.

Like mag-

gots they had swarmed defilingly over the mystery

of Linda's death. Maggots again, but larger,

full

grown, they now crawled across his grief and his
repentance. He halted and, with bewildered and
horrified eyes, stared round him at the khaki mob,
in the midst of which, overtopping it by a full head,
he stood. "How many goodly creatures are there
here!" The singing words mocked him derisively.
"How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world ..."
"Soma distribution!" shouted a loud voice. "In

good order, please. Hurry up there."
A door had been opened, a table and chair carried
into the vestibule. The voice was that of a jaunty
young Alpha, who had entered carrying a black iron
cash-box. A murmur of satisfaction went up from
the expectant twins.

They

Savage. Their attention was

forgot

all

about the

now focussed on the

black cash-box, which the young man had placed on

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
four-hour day. What was the result? Unrest and a
large increase in the consumption of soma; that was

Those three and a half hours of extra leisure were
so far from being a source of happiness, that people
felt constrained to take a holiday from them. The
all.

Inventions Office is stuffed with plans for labour-

saving processes. Thousands of them."

Mustapha

Mond made a lavish gesture. "And why don't we
put them into execution? For the sake of the labourers; it would be sheer cruelty to afflict them
with excessive leisure. It's the same with agriculture.
We could synthesize every morsel of food, if we
wanted to. But we don't. We prefer to keep a third
of the population on the land. For their own sakes
because it takes longer to get food out of the land than
out of a factory. Besides, we have our stability to
think of. We don't want to change. Every change is
a menace to stability. That's another reason why
we're so chary of applying new inventions. Every
discovery in pure science is potentially subversive;
even science must sometimes be treated as a possible
enemy. Yes, even science."
Science? The Savage frowned. He knew the word.
But what it exactly signified he could not say.
Shakespeare and the old men of the pueblo had
never mentioned science, and from Linda he had
only gathered the vaguest hints: science was something you made helicopters with, something that
caused you to laugh at the Corn Dances, something

BRAVE NEW WORLD
that prevented you from being wrinkled and losing

your teeth. He made a desperate effort to take the
Controller's meaning.
"Yes," Mustapha Mond was saying, "that's another item in the cost of stability. It isn't only art
that's incompatible with happiness; it's also science.
Science is dangerous; we have to keep it most carefully chained and muzzled."
"What?" said Helmholtz, in astonishment. "But
we're always saying that science is everything. It's
a hypnopaedic platitude."
"Three times a week between thirteen and seventeen," put in Bernard.

"And all the science propaganda we do at the
College

.

.

."

"Yes; but what sort of science?" asked Mustapha

Mond sarcastically. "You've had no scientific training, so you can't judge." I was a pretty good physicist in

my time. Too good —good enough to realize

that all our science is just a cookery book, with an
orthodox theory of cooking that nobody's allowed to
question, and a list of recipes that mustn't be added
to except by special permission from the head cook.
I'm the head cook now. But I was an inquisitive
young scullion once. I started doing a bit of cooking

on my own. Unorthodox cooking, illicit cooking. A
bit of real science, in fact." He was silent.
"What happened?" asked Helmholtz Watson.
The Controller sighed. "Very nearly what's going

BRAVE NEW WORLD
to happen to you young men. I was on the point of

being sent to an island."
The words galvanized Bernard into a violent and

unseemly activity. "Send me to an island?" He
jumped up, ran across the room, and stood gesticulating in front of the Controller. "You can't send me.
I haven't done anything. It was the others. I swear
it

was the others." He pointed accusingly to Helm-

holtz and the Savage. "Oh, please don't send me to

Iceland. I promise I'll do what I ought to do. Give

me another chance. Please give me another chance."
The tears began to flow. "I tell you, it's their fault,"
he sobbed. "And not to Iceland. Oh please, your
fordship, please ..." And in a paroxysm of abjection

he threw himself on his knees before the Controller.
Mustapha Mond tried to make him get up; but Ber-

nard persisted in his grovelling; the stream of words
poured out inexhaustibly. In the end the Controller

had to ring for his fourth secretary.
"Bring three men," he ordered, "and take Mr.
Marx into a bedroom. Give him a good soma vaporization and then put him to bed and leave him."
The fourth secretary went out and returned with
three green-uniformed twin footmen.

Still

shouting

and sobbing, Bernard was carried out.
"One would think he was going to have his throat
cut,"

said

the

Controller,

as

the

door closed.

"Whereas, if he had the smallest sense, he'd understand that his punishment is really a reward. He's

BRAVE NEW WORLD
being sent to an island. That's to say, he's being sent
to a place where he'll meet the most interesting set
of men and women to be found anywhere in the
world. All the people who, for one reason or another,

have got too self-consciously individual to fit into
community-life. All the people who aren't satisfied

with orthodoxy, who've got independent ideas of
their own. Every one, in a word, who's any one. I
almost envy you, Mr. Watson."
Helmholtz laughed. "Then why aren't you on an
island yourself?"

"Because,

finally,

I

preferred

this,"

the

Con-

troller answered. "I was given the choice: to be sent

an island, where I could have got on with my
pure science, or to be taken on to the Controllers'
Council with the prospect of succeeding in due
course to an actual Controllership. I chose this and
let the science go." After a little silence, "Someto

he added, "I rather regret the science.
Happiness is a hard master particularly other
people's happiness. A much harder master, if one
isn't conditioned to accept it unquestioningly, than
truth." He sighed, fell silent again, then continued
times,"

—

One can't
own preferences. I'm interested in

in a brisker tone, "Well, duty's duty.
consult one's

truth, I like science. But truth's a menace, science is

a public danger. As dangerous as it's been beneficent. It has given us the stablest equilibrium in
history. China's was hopelessly insecure by compari-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
son; even the primitive matriarchies weren't steadier

than we are. Thanks,
can't allow science to

I

repeat, to science. But we

undo

its

own good work.

That's why we so carefully limit the scope of its researches

—that's why

I

almost got sent to an island.

We don't allow it to deal with any but the most immediate problems of the moment. All other enquiries
are most sedulously discouraged. It's curious," he
went on after a little pause, "to read what people in
the time of Our Ford used to write about scientific
progress. They seemed to have imagined that it
could be allowed to go on indefinitely, regardless of
everything else. Knowledge was the highest good,
truth the supreme value; all the rest was secondary
and subordinate. True, ideas were beginning to
change even then. Our Ford himself did a great deal
to shift the emphasis from truth and beauty to comfort and happiness. Mass production demanded the
shift. Universal happiness keeps the wheels steadily
turning; truth and beauty can't. And, of course,
whenever the masses seized political power, then it
was happiness rather than truth and beauty that
mattered.

Still,

in spite of everything, unrestricted

was still permitted. People still
went on talking about truth and beauty as though
they were the sovereign goods. Right up to the time
of the Nine Years' War. That made them change
their tune all right. What's the point of truth or
beauty or knowledge when the anthrax bombs are
scientific research

BRAVE NEW WORLD
popping all around you? That was when science first
began to be controlled after the Nine Years' War.
People were ready to have even their appetites controlled then. Anything for a quiet life. We've gone on
controlling ever since. It hasn't been very good for
truth, of course. But it's been very good for happiness. One can't have something for nothing. Happiness has got to be paid for. You're paying for it, Mr.
Watson paying because you happen to be too much
interested in beauty. I was too much interested in

—

—

truth; I paid too."

"But you didn't go to an island," said the Savage,
breaking a long silence.

The Controller smiled. "That's how I paid. By
choosing to serve happiness. Other people's

mine.

It's

—not

lucky," he added, after a pause, "that

there are such a lot of islands in the world. I don't

know what we should do without them. Put you all
in the lethal chamber, I suppose. By the way, Mr.
Watson, would you like a tropical climate? The Marquesas, for example; or Samoa? Or something rather

more bracing?"
Helmholtz rose from

his

pneumatic

chair.

"I

should like a thoroughly bad climate," he answered.

"I believe one would write better if the climate were
bad. If there were a

lot

of wind and storms, for

example ..."

The Controller nodded his approbation. "I like
your spirit, Mr. Watson. I like it very much indeed.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
As much as I officially disapprove of it." He smiled.

"What about the Falkland Islands?"
"Yes, I think that will do," Helmholtz answered.

"And now, if you don't mind, I'll go and see how
poor Bernard's getting on."

275

CNr^feswo

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Art, science

—you seem to have paid a

fairly high

price for your happiness," said the Savage,

when

they were alone. "Anything else?"
"Well, religion, of course," replied the Controller.

—

"There used to be something called God before the
Nine Years' War. But I was forgetting; you know all
about God, I suppose."
." The Savage hesitated. He would have
"Well
.

.

liked to say something about solitude, about night,

about the mesa lying pale under the moon, about
the precipice, the plunge into shadowy darkness,
about death. He would have liked to speak; but
there were no words. Not even in Shakespeare.
The Controller, meanwhile, had crossed to the
other side of the room and was unlocking a large
safe let into the wall between the bookshelves. The
heavy door swung open. Rummaging in the dark-

BRA VE NEW WORLD
a subject," he said, "that has
always had a great interest for me." He pulled out a
thick black volume. "You've never read this, for
ness within,

"It's

example."
The Savage took it. "The Holy Bible, containing the
Old and New Testaments" he read aloud from the
title-page.

"Nor this." It was a small book and had lost its
cover.

"The Imitation of Christ ."
"Nor this." He handed out another volume.
"The Varieties of Religious Experience. By William
James."
"And I've got plenty more," Mustapha Mond
continued, resuming his seat. "A whole collection
of pornographic old books. God in the safe and Ford
on the shelves." He pointed with a laugh to his
avowed library to the shelves of books, the racks full
of reading-machine bobbins and sound-track rolls.
"But if you know about God, why don't you tell
them?" asked the Savage indignantly. "Why don't
you give them these books about God?"
"For the same reason as we don't give them
Othello: they're old; they're about God hundreds of
years ago. Not about God now."
"But God doesn't change."

—

"Men do, though."
"What difference does that make?"
"All the difference in the world," said Mustapha

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Mond. He got up again and walked to the safe.
"There was a man called Cardinal Newman," he
said.

"A cardinal," he exclaimed parenthetically,

"was a kind of Arch-Community-Songster."
" T Pandulph, of fair Milan, cardinal.' I've read

about them in Shakespeare."
"Of course you have. Well, as I was saying, there
was a man called Cardinal Newman. Ah, here's the
book." He pulled it out. "And while I'm about it I'll
take this one too. It's by a man called Maine de
Biran. He was a philosopher, if you know what that
was."

"A man who dreams of fewer things than there are
in heaven and earth," said the Savage promptly.

"Quite so. I'll read you one of the things he did
dream of in a moment. Meanwhile, listen to what
old Arch-Community-Songster said." He
this
opened the book at the place marked by a slip of
paper and began to read. " 'We are not our own
any more than what we possess is our own. We did
not make ourselves, we cannot be supreme over ourselves. We are not our own masters. We are God's
property. Is it not our happiness thus to view the
matter? Is it any happiness or any comfort, to consider that we are our own? It may be thought so by
the young and prosperous. These may think it a
great thing to have everything, as they suppose,
their own way to depend on no one to have to
think of nothing out of sight, to be without the irk-

—

—

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
someness of continual acknowledgment, continual
prayer, continual reference of what they do to the
will of another. But as time goes on, they, as all men,
will find that independence was not made for

that it is an unnatural state

man

—will do for a while, but

will not carry us on safely to the end . . .' " Mustapha

Mond paused, put down the first book and, picking
up the other, turned over the pages. "Take this, for
example," he said, and in his deep voice once more
began to read: " 'A man grows old; he feels in himself that radical sense of weakness,

of lisdessness, of

discomfort, which accompanies the advance of age;

and, feeling thus, imagines himself merely sick, lulling his fears with the notion that this distressing
condition is due to some particular cause, from

which, as from an illness, he hopes to recover. Vain
imaginings! That sickness is old age; and a horrible
disease it is. They say that it is the fear of death and
of what comes after death that makes men turn to
religion as they advance in years.

perience has given

But my own ex-

me the conviction that, quite

apart from any such terrors or imaginings, the religious sentiment tends to develop as we grow older;

to develop because, as the passions

grow calm, as

the fancy and sensibilities are less excited and less

our reason becomes less troubled in
less obscured by the images, desires
and distractions, in which it used to be absorbed;
whereupon God emerges as from behind a cloud;
excitable,

its

working,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
our soul

feels,

sees,

turns towards

the source of

all light; turns naturally and inevitably; for
all

now that

that gave to the world of sensations its life and

charm has begun to leak away from us, now that
phenomenal existence is no more bolstered up by impressions from within or from without,

we feel the

need to lean on something that abides, something
that will never play us false a reality, an absolute

—

and everlasting truth. Yes, we inevitably turn to
God; for this religious sentiment is of its nature so
pure, so delightful to the soul that experiences it,

makes up to us for all our other losses.' "
Mustapha Mond shut the book and leaned back in
his chair. "One of the numerous things in heaven
and earth that these philosophers didn't dream about
was this" (he waved his hand), "us, the modern
world. 'You can only be independent of God while
you've got youth and prosperity; independence
won't take you safely to the end.' Well, we've now
got youth and prosperity right up to the end. What
follows? Evidently, that we can be independent of
God. 'The religious sentiment will compensate us for
all our losses.' But there aren't any losses for us to
that

it

compensate; religious sentiment is superfluous. And
why should we go hunting for a substitute for youthful

desires,

when

youthful desires never

fail?

A

substitute for distractions, when we go on enjoying

What need have
we of repose when our minds and bodies continue to
all the old fooleries to the very last?

BRAVE NEW WORLD
when we have
soma? of something immovable, when there is the
delight in activity? of consolation,

social order?"

"Then you think there is no God?"
"No, I think there quite probably is one."
."
"Then why?
Mustapha Mond checked him. "But he manifests
.

.

himself in different ways to different men. In pre-

modern times he manifested himself as the being
that's described in these books.

Now

.

.

."

"How does he manifest himself now?" asked the
Savage.
"Well, he manifests himself as an absence; as
though he weren't there at all."
"That's your fault."
"Call it the fault of civilization. God isn't compatible with machinery and scientific medicine and
universal happiness. You must make your choice.
Our civilization has chosen machinery and medicine
and happiness. That's why I have to keep these

books locked up in the safe. They're smut. People
."
would be shocked if
The Savage interrupted him. "But isn't it natural
to feel there's a God?"
"You might as well ask if it's natural to do up one's
.

.

trousers with zippers," said the Controller sarcastically. "You remind

me of another of those old fellows

called Bradley. He defined philosophy as the finding

of bad reason for what one believes by instinct. As

BRAVE NEW WORLD
if one

believed anything by instinct!

One believes

things because one has been conditioned to believe
them. Finding bad reasons for what one believes for

other bad reasons
lieve in

—that's philosophy. People be-

God because they've been conditioned to

believe in God."

"But all the same,"

insisted the Savage,

"it is

natural to believe in God when you're alone

—quite

alone, in the night, thinking about death

."

.

.

"But people never are alone now," said Mustapha

Mond. "We make them hate solitude; and we arrange their lives so that it's almost impossible for
them ever to have it."
The Savage nodded gloomily. At Malpais he had
suffered because they had shut him out from the

communal activities of the pueblo, in civilized London he was suffering because he could never escape
from those communal

activities,

never be quietly

alone.

"Do you remember that bit in King Lear?" said
the Savage at last. " 'The gods are just and of our
make instruments to plague us; the
dark and vicious place where thee he got cost him

pleasant vices
his eyes,' and

Edmund answers —you remember, he's

wounded, he's dying
true.

—'Thou hast spoken right;

'tis

The wheel has come full circle; I am here.'

What about that now? Doesn't there seem to be a
God managing things, punishing, rewarding?"
"Well, does there?" questioned the Controller in

BRAVE NEW WORLD
his turn.

"You can indulge in any number of pleas-

ant vices with a freemartin and run no

of
having your eyes put out by your son's mistress. 'The
wheel has come full circle; I am here.' But where
would Edmund be nowadays? Sitting in a pneumatic chair, with his arm round a girl's waist, sucking
away at his sex-hormone chewing-gum and looking
at the feelies. The gods are just. No doubt. But their
code of law is dictated, in the last resort, by the
people who organize society; Providence takes its
cue from men."
"Are you sure?" asked the Savage. "Are you quite
sure that the Edmund in that pneumatic chair hasn't
been just as heavily punished as the Edmund who's
wounded and bleeding to death? The gods are just.
Haven't they used his pleasant vices as an instrument to degrade him?"
"Degrade him from what position? As a happy,
hard-working, goods-consuming citizen he's perfect.
Of course, if you choose some other standard than
ours, then perhaps you might say he was degraded.
But you've got to stick to one set of postulates. You
can't play Electro-magnetic Golf according to the
risks

rules of Centrifugal Bumble-puppy."

"But value dwells not in particular will," said the
Savage. "It holds his estimate and dignity as well
wherein 'tis precious of itself as in the prizer."
"Come, come," protested Mustapha Mond,
"that's going rather far, isn't it?"

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"If you allowed yourselves to think of God, you
wouldn't allow yourselves to be degraded by pleasant
vices. You'd have a reason for bearing things patiently, for doing things with courage. I've seen it

with the Indians."
"I'm sure you have," said Mustapha Mond. "But
then we aren't Indians. There isn't any need for a
civilized man to bear anything that's seriously unpleasant. And as for doing things Ford forbid that

—

he should get the idea into his head. It would upset
the whole social order if men started doing things

on their own."

"What about self-denial, then? If you had a God,
you'd have a reason for self-denial."
"But industrial civilization is only possible when
there's no self-denial. Self-indulgence up to the very
limits imposed by hygiene and economics. Otherwise
the wheels stop turning."
"You'd have a reason for chastity!" said the Savage, blushing a little as he spoke the words.

"But

chastity

means

passion,

chastity

means

And passion and neurasthenia mean
instability means the end of civilAnd
instability.
ization. You can't have a lasting civilization without
neurasthenia.

plenty of pleasant vices."
"But God's the reason for everything noble and
fine and heroic. If you had a God ..."

"My dear young friend," said Mustapha Mond,
"civilization has absolutely

no need of nobility or

BRAVE NEW WORLD
heroism. These things are symptoms of political inefficiency. In a properly organized society like ours,

nobody has any opportunities for being noble or
have got to be thoroughly unstable before the occasion can arise. Where there
are wars, where there are divided allegiances, where
there are temptations to be resisted, objects of love
there, obviously,
to be fought for or defended
nobility and heroism have some sense. But there
aren't any wars nowadays. The greatest care is
taken to prevent you from loving any one too much.
There's no such thing as a divided allegiance; you're
so conditioned that you can't help doing what you
ought to do. And what you ought to do is on the
whole so pleasant, so many of the natural impulses
heroic. Conditions

—

are allowed free play, that there really aren't any

temptations to resist. And if ever, by some unlucky
chance, anything unpleasant should somehow happen, why, there's always soma to give you a holiday

from the facts. And there's always soma to calm your
anger, to reconcile you to your enemies, to make
you patient and long-suffering. In the past you could
only accomplish these things by making a great
effort and after years of hard moral training. Now,

you swallow two or three half-gramme tablets, and
there you are. Anybody can be virtuous now. You
can carry at least half your morality about in a
bottle. Christianity without tears
that's what soma

—

is."

BRAVE NEW WORLD
"But the tears are necessary. Don't you remember
what Othello said? 'If after every tempest came such
calms, may the winds blow till they have wakened
death.' There's a story one of the old Indians used
to tell us, about the Girl of Mataski. The young men

who wanted to marry her had to do a morning's
hoeing in her garden. It seemed easy; but there were
flies and mosquitoes, magic ones. Most of the young

men simply couldn't stand the biting and stinging.

—

But the one that could he got the girl."
"Charming! But in civilized countries," said the
Controller, "you can have girls without hoeing for
them; and there aren't any flies or mosquitoes to
sting you.

We got rid of them all centuries ago."

The Savage nodded, frowning. "You got rid of
them. Yes, that's just like you. Getting rid of everything unpleasant instead of learning to put up with

Whether 'tis better in the mind to suffer the slings
and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms
against a sea of troubles and by opposing end them
But you don't do either. Neither suffer nor
oppose. You just abolish the slings and arrows. It's
it.

.

.

.

too easy."

He was suddenly silent, thinking of his mother.
In her room on the thirty-seventh floor, Linda had
floated in a sea of singing lights and perfumed
floated away, out of space, out of time, out
caresses
of the prison of her memories, her habits, her aged
and bloated body. And Tomakin, ex-Director of

—

«

.286.

'

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Hatcheries and Conditioning, Tomakin was still on
holiday

—on holiday from humiliation and pain, in

a world where he could not hear those words, that
derisive laughter, could not see that hideous face,
feel

those moist and flabby arms round his neck, in

a beautiful world
"What you need," the Savage went on, "is some.

.

.

thing with tears for a change. Nothing costs enough
here."

("Twelve and a half million dollars," Henry
Foster had protested when the Savage told him that.

—

"Twelve and a half million that's what the new
Conditioning Centre cost. Not a cent less.")
"Exposing what is mortal and unsure to all that
and danger dare, even for an eggshell. Isn't there something in that?" he asked, looking up at Mustapha Mond. "Quite apart from God
though of course God would be a reason for it.
Isn't there something in living dangerously?"
fortune, death

—

"There's a great deal in it," the Controller replied.

"Men and women must have their adrenals stimulated from time to time."

"What?" questioned the Savage, uncomprehending.
"It's one of the conditions of perfect health.That's

why we've made the V.P.S. treatments compulsory."
"V.P.S.?"
"Violent Passion Surrogate. Regularly once a
month. We flood the whole system with adrenin.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
It's the complete physiological equivalent of fear and

rage. All the tonic effects of murdering Desdemona
and being murdered by Othello, without any of the

inconveniences."

"But I like the inconveniences."

"We don't," said the Controller. "We prefer to do
things comfortably."

"But I don't want comfort. I want God, I want
poetry, I want real danger, I want freedom, I want

goodness. I want sin."

"In fact," said Mustapha Mond, "you're claiming
the right to be unhappy."

"All right then," said the Savage defiantly, "I'm

claiming the right to be unhappy."
"Not to mention the right to grow old and ugly

and impotent; the right to have syphilis and cancer;
the right to have too little to eat; the right to be
lousy; the right to live in constant apprehension of

what may happen to-morrow; the right to catch
typhoid; the right to be tortured by unspeakable
pains of every kind."

There was a long silence.
"I claim them all," said the Savage at last.

Mustapha Mond shrugged his shoulders. "You're
welcome," he said.

288

cvv^wWn
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
The door was ajar; they entered.
"John!"

From

the

bathroom came an unpleasant and

characteristic sound.

"Is there anything the matter?" Helmholtz called.
There was no answer. The unpleasant sound was
repeated, twice; there was silence. Then, with a click,
the bathroom door opened and, very pale, the Sav-

age emerged.
"I say," Helmholtz exclaimed solicitously, "you
do look ill,John!"

"Did you eat something that didn't agree with
you?" asked Bernard.
The Savage nodded. "I ate civilization."

"What?"
"It poisoned me; I was defiled. And then," he
added, in a lower tone, "I ate my own wickedness."

—
BRA VE NEW WORLD
"Yes, but what exactly? ... I mean, just now you

were

.

.

."

"Now I am purified," said the Savage. "I drank
some mustard and warm water."
The others stared at him in astonishment. "Do you
mean to say that you were doing it on purpose?"
asked Bernard.

how the Indians always purify themselves." He sat down and, sighing, passed his hand
"That's

across his forehead. "I shall rest for a few minutes,"

he said. "I'm rather tired."
"Well, I'm not surprised," said Helmholtz. After
a silence, "We've come to say good-bye," he went on
in another tone. "We're off to-morrow morning."
"Yes, we're off to-morrow," said Bernard on
whose face the Savage remarked a new expression
of determined resignation. "And by the way, John,"
he continued, leaning forward in his chair and laying a hand on the Savage's knee, "I want to say how
sorry I am about everything that happened yesterday." He blushed. "How ashamed," he went on, in
spite of the unsteadiness of his voice, "how really . .

."

The Savage cut him short and, taking his hand,
affectionately pressed it.

"Helmholtz was wonderful to me," Bernard resumed, after a little pause. "If it hadn't been for
him, I should ..."
"Now, now," Helmholtz protested.
There was a silence. In spite of their sadness

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
because of it, even; for their sadness was the symptom of their. love for one another the three young

—

men were happy.
"I went to see the Controller this morning," said
the Savage at last.

"What for?"
"To ask if I mightn't go to the islands with you."
"And what did he say?" asked Helmholtz eagerly.
The Savage shook his head. "He wouldn't let me."

"Why not?"
"He said he wanted to go on with the experiment.
But I'm damned," the Savage added, with sudden
fury, "I'm damned if I'll go on being experimented
with. Not for all the Controllers in the world. / shall
go away to-morrow too."
"But where?" the others asked in unison.
The Savage shrugged his shoulders. "Anywhere.
I don't care. So long as I can be alone."

From Guildford the down-line followed the Wey
valley to Godalming, then, over Milford and Witley,

proceeded to Haslemere and on through Petersfield
towards Portsmouth. Roughly parallel to it, the upline passed over Worplesden, Tongham, Puttenham,
Elstead and Grayshott. Between the Hog's Back and
Hindhead there were points where the two lines
were not more than six or seven kilometres apart.
The distance was too small for careless flyers

BRAVE NEW WORLD
particularly at night and when they had taken half

a

gramme too much. There had been accidents.

Serious ones. It had been decided to deflect the upline a few kilometres to the west. Between Grayshott

and Tongham four abandoned air-lighthouses
marked the course of the old Portsmouth-to-London
road. The skies above them were silent and deserted.
It was over Selborne, Bordon and Farnham that the
helicopters now ceaselessly hummed and roared.
The Savage had chosen as his hermitage the old
lighthouse which stood on the crest of the hill between Puttenham and Elstead. The building was of
ferro-concrete and in excellent condition almost too
comfortable the Savage had thought when he first

—

explored the place, almost too civilizedly luxurious.
He pacified his conscience by promising himself a

compensatingly harder self-discipline, purifications
the more complete and thorough. His first night in
the hermitage was, deliberately, a sleepless one. He
spent the hours on his knees praying, now to that
Heaven from which the guilty Claudius had begged
forgiveness, now in Zufii to Awonawilona, now to
Jesus and Pookong, now to his own guardian animal,
the eagle. From time to time he stretched out his

arms as though he were on the cross, and held them
thus through long minutes of an ache that gradually
increased till it became a tremulous and excruciating
agony; held them, in voluntary crucifixion, while he
repeated, through clenched teeth (the sweat, mean-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
while, pouring

down his face), "Oh, forgive me!

Oh, make me pure! Oh, help me to be good!" again
and again, till he was on the point of fainting from
the pain.

When morning came, he felt he had earned the
though
was glass in most of the windows, even
though the view from the platform was so fine. For
the very reason why he had chosen the lighthouse
had become almost instantly a reason for going
somewhere else. He had decided to live there because the view was so beautiful, because, from his
vantage point, he seemed to be looking out on to the
incarnation of a divine being. But who was he to be
pampered with the daily and hourly sight of loveliness? Who was he to be living in the visible presence
of God? All he deserved to live in was some filthy sty,
some blind hole in the ground. Stiff and still aching
after his long night of pain, but for that very reason
inwardly reassured, he climbed up to the platform of
his tower, he looked out over the bright sunrise
world which he had regained the right to inhabit.
On the north the view was bounded by the long
chalk ridge of the Hog's Back, from behind whose
eastern extremity rose the towers of the seven skyscrapers which constituted Guildford. Seeing them,
the Savage made a grimace; but he was to become
reconciled to them in course of time; for at night they
twinkled gaily with geometrical constellations, or
right to inhabit the lighthouse; yes, even

there

still

BRAVE NEW WORLD
else,

flood-lighted, pointed their luminous fingers

(with a gesture whose significance nobody in Eng-

land but the Savage now understood) solemnly
towards the plumbless mysteries of heaven.
In the valley which separated the Hog's Back from
the sandy hill on which the lighthouse stood, Puttenham was a modest little village nine stories high,
with silos, a poultry farm, and a small vitamin-D
factory. On the other side of the lighthouse, towards
the South, the ground fell away in long slopes of
heather to a chain of ponds.
Beyond them, above the intervening woods, rose
the fourteen-story tower of Elstead. Dim in the
hazy English air, Hindhead and Selborne invited the
eye into a blue romantic distance. But it was not
alone the distance that had attracted the Savage to
his lighthouse; the near was as seductive as the far.
The woods, the open stretches of heather and yellow
gorse, the clumps of Scotch firs, the shining ponds
with their overhanging birch trees, their water lilies,
their beds of rushes
these were beautiful and, to an
eye accustomed to the aridities of the American
desert, astonishing. And then the solitude Whole days
passed during which he never saw a human being.
The lighthouse was only a quarter of an hour's flight
from the Charing-T Tower; but the hills of Malpais
were hardly more deserted than this Surrey heath.
The crowds that daily left London left it only to play
Electro-magnetic Golf or Tennis. Puttenham pos-

—

!

BRAVE NEW WORLD
no links; the nearest Riemann-surfaces were
Flowers and a landscape were the
only attractions here. And so, as there was no good
reason for coming, nobody came. During the first
days the Savage lived alone and undisturbed.
Of the money which, on his first arrival, John had
received for his personal expenses, most had been
spent on his equipment. Before leaving London he
had bought four viscose-woollen blankets, rope and
string, nails, glue, a few tools, matches (though he
intended in due course to make a fire drill), some
pots and pans, two dozen packets of seeds, and ten
kilogrammes of wheat flour. "No, not synthetic starch
and cotton-waste flour-substitute," he had insisted.
"Even though it is more nourishing." But when it
came to pan-glandular biscuits and vitaminized
beef-surrogate, he had not been able to resist the
shopman's persuasion. Looking at the tins now, he
sessed

at Guildford.

bitterly reproached himself for his weakness. Loath-

some civilized stuff! He had made up his mind that
he would never eat it, even if he were starving.
"That'll teach them," he thought vindictively. It

would also teach him.
He counted his money. The little that remained
would be enough, he hoped, to tide him over the
winter. By next spring, his garden would be producing enough to make him independent of the outside
world. Meanwhile, there would always be game.
He had seen plenty of rabbits, and there were water-

—
BRAVE NEW WORLD
fowl on the ponds. He set to work at once to make a

bow and arrows.
There were ash trees near the lighthouse and,
for arrow shafts, a whole copse full of beautifully
straight hazel saplings. He began by felling a young
ash, cut out six feet of unbranched stem, stripped off
the bark and, paring by paring, shaved away the
white wood, as old Mitsima had taught him, until he
had a stave of his own height, stiff at the thickened
centre, lively and quick at the slender tips. The work
gave him an intense pleasure. After those weeks of
idleness in London, with nothing to do, whenever he
wanted anything, but to press a switch or turn a
handle, it was pure delight to be doing something
that demanded skill and patience.
He had almost finished whitding the stave into
shape, when he realized with a start that he was
singing singing! It was as though, stumbling upon
himself from the outside, he had suddenly caught
himself out, taken himself flagrantly at fault. Guiltily
he blushed. After all, it was not to sing and enjoy
himself that he had

come here. It was to escape

further contamination by the filth of civilized life; it
was to be purified and made good; it was actively to

make amends. He realized to his dismay that, absorbed in the whittling of his bow, he had forgotten
what he had sworn to himself he would constantly

remember

—poor Linda, and his own murderous

unkindness to her,

and those loathsome

twins,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
swarming like lice across the mystery of her death,
insulting,

with their presence, not merely his own

grief and repentance, but the very gods themselves.

He had sworn to remember, he had sworn unceasmake amends. And here was he, sitting

ingly to

happily over his bow-stave, singing, actually singing

He went indoors, opened the box of mustard, and
put some water to boil on the fire.
Half an hour later, three Delta-Minus landworkers from one of the Puttenham Bokanovsky Groups
happened to be driving to Elstead and, at the top
of the hill, were astonished to see a young man
standing outside the abandoned lighthouse stripped to the waist and hitting himself with a whip
of knotted cords. His back was horizontally streaked
with crimson, and from weal to weal ran thin
trickles of blood. The driver of the lorry pulled up
at the side of the road and, with his two companions,
stared open-mouthed at the extraordinary spectacle.

One, two, three

—they counted the

the eighth, the young

strokes. After

man interrupted his self-

punishment to run to the wood's edge and there be
violently sick. When he had finished, he picked up
the whip and began hitting himself again. Nine, ten,
eleven, twelve . . .

"Ford!" whispered the driver. And his twins were
of the same opinion.

"Fordey!" they said.

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Three days later, like turkey buzzards settling
on a corpse, the reporters came.
Dried and hardened over a slow fire of green
wood, the bow was ready. The Savage was busy on
his arrows. Thirty hazel sticks had been whittled and
dried,

tipped with sharp nails, carefully nocked.

He had made a raid one night on the Puttenham
poultry farm, and now had feathers enough to equip

a whole armoury. It was at work upon the feathering
of his shafts that the first of the reporters found him.
Noiseless on his pneumatic shoes, the man came up
behind him.
"Good-morning, Mr. Savage," he said. "I am
the representative of The Hourly Radio"
Startled as though by the bite of a snake, the
Savage sprang to his feet, scattering arrows, feathers,
glue-pot and brush in all directions.
"I beg your pardon," said the reporter, with
." He
genuine compunction. "I had no intention
.

.

—

touched his hat the aluminium stove-pipe hat in
which he carried his wireless receiver and transmitter.

"Excuse my not taking it off," he said. "It's a bit
heavy. Well, as I was saying, I am the representative
of The Hourly ..."

"What do you want?" asked the Savage, scowling.
The reporter returned his most ingratiating smile.
"Well, of course, our readers would be profoundly

..." He put his head on one side, his
smile became almost coquettish. "Just a few words

interested

—
BRAVE MEW WORLD
from you, Mr. Savage." And rapidly, with a series
of ritual gestures, he uncoiled two wires connected to
the portable battery buckled round his waist;
plugged them simultaneously into the sides of his
aluminium hat; touched a spring on the crown
and antennae shot up into the air; touched another
spring on the peak of the brim and, like a jack-inthe-box, out jumped a microphone and hung there,

—

quivering, six inches in front of his nose; pulled down

a pair of receivers over his ears; pressed a switch on
the left side of the hat and from within came a faint
waspy buzzing; turned a knob on the right and the

—

—

buzzing was interrupted by a stethoscopic wheeze
and crackle, by hiccoughs and sudden squeaks.
"Hullo," he said to the microphone, "hullo,
hullo ..." A bell suddenly rang inside his hat. "Is
that you, Edzel? Primo Mellon speaking. Yes, I've
got hold of him. Mr. Savage will now take the microphone and say a few words. Won't you, Mr. Savage?" He looked up at the Savage with another of
those winning smiles of his. "Just tell our readers why

you came here. What made you leave London (hold
on, Edzel!) so very suddenly. And, of course, that
whip." (The Savage started. How did they know
about the whip?) "We're all crazy to know about the
whip. And then something about Civilization. You
know the sort of stuff. 'What I think of the Civilized
Girl.' Just a few words, a very few ..."

The Savage obeyed with a disconcerting literal-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
ness. Five words he uttered and no more

—

five words,

the same as those he had said to Bernard about the
Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury. "Hani/
Sons

e'so

tse-nd!"

And seizing the reporter by the
him round (the young man re-

shoulder, he spun

vealed himself invitingly well-covered), aimed and,
with all the force and accuracy of a champion footand-mouth-baller, delivered a most prodigious kick.
Eight minutes later, a new edition of The Hourly
Radio was on sale in the streets of London. "Hourly

Radio Reporter has Coccyx kicked by Mystery
Savage," ran the headlines on the front page.
"Sensation in Surrey."
"Sensation even in London," thought the reporter
when, on his return, he read the words. And a very
painful sensation, what was more. He sat down gingerly to his luncheon.

Undeterred by that cautionary bruise on their
colleague's coccyx, four other reporters, representing

the New York Times, the Frankfurt Four-Dimensional
Continuum, The Fordian Science Monitor, and The Delta
Mirror, called that afternoon at the lighthouse and

met with receptions of

progressively

increasing

violence.

From a safe distance and still rubbing his but"Benighted fool!" shouted the man from The
Fordian Science Monitor, "why don't you take soma?"
tocks,

"Get away!" The Savage shook his fist.

The other retreated a few steps then turned round

BRAVE NEW WORLD
again. "Evil's an unreality if you take a couple of
grammes."
"Kohakwa iyathtokyai!" The tone was menacingly
derisive.

"Pain's a delusion."

"Oh, is it?" said the Savage and, picking up a
thick hazel switch, strode forward.

The man from The Fordian Science Monitor made a
dash for his helicopter.
After that the Savage was left for a time in peace.
A few helicopters came and hovered inquisitively
round the tower. He shot an arrow into the importunately nearest of them. It pierced the aluminium
floor of the cabin; there was a shrill yell, and the
machine went rocketing up into the air with all the

acceleration that its super-charger could give it. The
others, in future, kept their distance respectfully.

Ignoring their tiresome humming (he likened himself
in his imagination to one of the suitors of the Maiden

of Matsaki, unmoved and persistent among the
winged vermin), the Savage dug at what was to be
his garden. After a time the vermin evidently became bored and flew away; for hours at a stretch the
sky above his head was empty and, but for the larks,
silent.

The weather was breathlessly hot, there was thunder in the air. He had dug all the morning and was
resting, stretched out along the floor. And suddenly

the thought of Lenina was a real presence, naked and

BRAVE JVEW WORLD
tangible, saying "Sweet!" and "Put your arms round

me!"

—in shoes and socks, perfumed. Impudent

strumpet! But oh, oh, her arms round his neck, the
lifting of her breasts, her mouth! Eternity was in our
lips and eyes. Lenina

.

.

.

No, no, no, no! He sprang

to his feet and, half naked as he was, ran out of the

At the edge of the heath stood a clump of
hoary juniper bushes. He flung himself against them,
he embraced, not the smooth body of his desires, but
an armful of green spikes. Sharp, with a thousand
points, they pricked him. He tried to think of poor
house.

Linda, breathless and dumb, with her clutching
hands and the unutterable terror in her eyes. Poor
Linda whom he had sworn to remember. But it was
still the presence of Lenina that haunted him. Lenina

whom he had promised to forget. Even through the
and sting of the juniper needles, his wincing
flesh was aware of her, unescapably real. "Sweet,
And if you wanted me too, why didn't
sweet
."
you
The whip was hanging on a nail by the door, ready
to hand against the arrival of reporters. In a frenzy
stab

.

.

.

.

.

the Savage ran back to the house, seized it, whirled
it.

The knotted cords bit into his flesh.
"Strumpet! Strumpet!" he shouted at every blow

as though it were Lenina (and how frantically, with-

out knowing it, he wished it were!), white, warm,
scented, infamous Lenina that he was flogging thus.

"Strumpet!" And then, in a voice of despair, "Oh,

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Linda, forgive me. Forgive me, God. I'm bad. I'm
wicked. I'm

.

.

.

No, no, you strumpet, you strum-

pet!"

From his carefully constructed hide in the wood
hundred metres away, Darwin Bonaparte,

three

the Feely Corporation's most expert big game pho-

tographer had watched the whole proceedings. Patience

and skill had been rewarded. He had spent

three days sitting inside the bole of an artificial oak
tree, three nights crawling on his belly through the

heather, hiding microphones in gorse bushes, bury-

ing wires in the soft grey sand. Seventy- two hours of

profound discomfort. But now the great moment had
come the greatest, Darwin Bonaparte had time to
reflect, as he moved among his instruments, the
greatest since his taking of the famous all-howling
stereoscopic feely of the gorillas' wedding. "Splendid," he said to himself, as the Savage started his
astonishing performance. "Splendid!" He kept his
telescopic cameras carefully aimed
glued to their
moving objective; clapped on a higher power to get
a close-up of the frantic and distorted face (admi-

—

—

rable!); switched over, for half a minute, to slow

motion (an exquisitely comical effect, he promised
himself); listened in, meanwhile, to the blows, the
groans, the wild and raving words that were being
recorded on the sound-track at the edge of his film,
tried the effect of a little amplification (yes, that was
decidedly better); was delighted to hear, in a mo-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
mentary lull, the shrill singing of a lark; wished the
Savage would turn round so that he could get a
good close-up of the blood on his back and almost
instantly (what astonishing luck!) the accommodating fellow did turn round, and he was able to take a

—

perfect close-up.

"Well, that was grand!" he said to himself when

was all over. "Really grand!" He mopped his face.
When they had put in the feely effects at the studio,
it

would be a wonderful film. Almost as good,
thought Darwin Bonaparte, as the Sperm Whale's
Love-Life and that, by Ford, was saying a good deal!
Twelve days later The Savage of Surrey had been released and could be seen, heard and felt in every
first-class feely-palace in Western Europe.
The effect of Darwin Bonaparte's film was immediate and enormous. On the afternoon which
followed the evening of its release John's rustic solitude was suddenly broken by the arrival overhead of
it

—

a great swarm of helicopters.
He was digging in his garden digging, too, in his
own mind, laboriously turning up the substance of
and he drove in his spade once,
his thought. Death
and again, and yet again. And all our yesterdays
have lighted fools the way to dusty death. A convincing thunder rumbled through the words. He
lifted another spadeful of earth. Why had Linda
died? Why had she been allowed to become graduHe shuddered.
ally less than human and at last

—

—

.

.

.

BRA VE NEW WORLD
A good kissing carrion. He planted his foot on his
spade and stamped it fiercely into the tough ground.

As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods; they kill
us for their sport. Thunder again; words that proclaimed themselves true
itself.

—truer somehow than truth

And yet that same Gloucester had called them

ever-gentle gods. Besides, thy best of rest

is

sleep,

and that thou oft provok'st; yet grossly fear'st thy
death which is no more. No more than sleep. Sleep.
Perchance to dream. His spade struck against a
stone; he stooped to pick it up. For in that sleep of

death, what dreams?

.

.

.

A humming overhead had become a roar; and
suddenly he was in shadow, there was something between the sun and him. He looked up, startled, from
his digging, from his thoughts; looked up in a
dazzled bewilderment, his mind still wandering in
that other world of truer-than-truth, still focussed
on the immensities of death and deity; looked up and
saw, close above him, the swarm of hovering machines. Like locusts they came, hung poised, descended all around him on the heather. And from
out of the bellies of these giant grasshoppers stepped
men in white viscose-flannels, women (for the
weather was hot) in acetate-shantung pyjamas or

and sleeveless, half-unzippered
one couple from each. In a few minutes
singlets
there were dozens of them, standing in a wide circle
round the lighthouse, staring, laughing, clicking
velveteen

—

shorts

BRAVE NEW WORLD
an ape) pea-nuts,
packets of sex-hormone chewing-gum, pan-glandular
their cameras, throwing (as to

And every moment —for across the
Hog's Back the stream of traffic now flowed un-

petits

beurres.

ceasingly

—their numbers increased. As in a night-

mare, the dozens became scores, the scores hundreds.
The Savage had retreated towards cover, and now,
in the posture of an animal at bay, stood with his
back to the wall of the lighthouse, staring from face
to face in speechless horror, like a

man out of his

senses.

From this stupor he was aroused to a more immediate sense of reality by the impact on his cheek
of a well-aimed packet of chewing-gum. A shock
of startling pain and he was broad awake, awake

—

and fiercely angry.
"Go away!" he shouted.
The ape had spoken; there was a burst of laughter
and hand-clapping. "Good old Savage! Hurrah,
hurrah!" And through the babel he heard cries of:
"Whip, whip, the whip!"
Acting on the word's suggestion, he seized the
bunch of knotted cords from its nail behind the door

and shook it at his tormentors.
There was a yell of ironical applause.
Menacingly he advanced towards them. A woman
cried out in fear. The line wavered at its most
immediately threatened point, then stiffened again,
stood firm. The consciousness of being in overwhelm-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
ing force had given these sightseers a courage which
the Savage had not expected of them. Taken aback,

he halted and looked round.
"Why don't you leave me alone?" There was an
almost plaintive note in his anger.
"Have a few magnesium-salted almonds!" said
the man who, if the Savage were to advance, would
be the first to be attacked. He held out a packet.

"They're really very good, you know," he added,
with a rather nervous smile of propitiation. "And
the magnesium salts will help to keep you young."
The Savage ignored his offer. "What do you want
with me?" he asked, turning from one grinning face
to another. "What do you want with me?"
"The whip," answered a hundred voices confusedly. "Do the whipping stunt. Let's see the whipping stunt."
Then, in unison and on a slow, heavy rhythm,
"We want the whip," shouted a group at the end
of the line. "We want the whip."
Others at once took up the cry, and the phrase
was repeated, parrot-fashion, again and again, with
an ever-growing volume of sound, until, by the

—

—

—

—

seventh or eighth reiteration, no other word was

being spoken. "We

—want —the whip."

They were all crying together; and, intoxicated
by the noise, the unanimity, the sense of rhythmical
atonement, they might, it seemed, have gone on for
hours

—almost indefinitely. But at about the twenty-

BRAVE NEW WORLD
fifth repetition

the proceedings were startlingly in-

terrupted. Yet another helicopter had arrived from
across the Hog's Back, hung poised above the crowd,

then dropped within a few yards of where the Savage was standing, in the open space between the line
of sightseers and the lighthouse. The roar of the air
screws momentarily drowned the shouting; then, as

and the engines
were turned off: "We want the whip; we want
the whip," broke out again in the same loud, inthe machine touched the ground

—

—

—

—

sistent monotone.

The door

of the helicopter opened,

and out

and ruddy-faced young man,
stepped, first a
then, in green velveteen shorts, white shirt, and
fair

jockey cap, a young woman.

At the

young woman, the Savage

sight of the

started, recoiled, turned pale.

The young woman stood, smiling at him

—an un-

certain, imploring, almost abject smile. The seconds

passed. Her lips moved, she was saying something;

but the sound of her voice was covered by the loud
reiterated refrain of the sightseers.

"We —want —the whip! We —want —the whip!"
The young woman pressed both hands to her left
side,

and on that peach-bright, doll-beautiful face

of hers appeared a strangely incongruous expression
of yearning distress. Her blue eyes seemed to grow
larger, brighter; and suddenly two tears rolled down

her cheeks. Inaudibly, she spoke again; then, with a
.

,

3o8,

'

BRAVE NEW WORLD
quick, impassioned gesture stretched out her

arms

towards the Savage, stepped forward.
"We want the whip! We want ..."

—

—

—

And all of a sudden they had what they wanted.
"Strumpet!" The Savage had rushed at her like a
madman. "Fitchew!" Like a madman, he was slashing at her with his whip of small cords.
Terrified, she had turned to flee, had tripped and

"Henry, Henry!" she shouted.
But her ruddy-faced companion had bolted out of
harm's way behind the helicopter.

fallen in the heather.

With a whoop of delighted excitement the line
broke; there was a convergent stampede towards
that magnetic centre of attraction. Pain was a fasci-

nating horror.
"Fry, lechery, fry!" Frenzied, the Savage slashed
again.

Hungrily they gathered round, pushing
scrambling like swine about the trough.

"Oh, the flesh!" The Savage ground

and

his teeth.

This time it was on his shoulders that the whip descended. "Kill it, kill it!"

Drawn by the fascination of the horror of pain
and, from within, impelled by that habit of coopera-

unanimity and atonement,
which their conditioning had so ineradicably implanted in them, they began to mime the frenzy of his
gestures, striking at one another as the Savage struck
tion,

that

at his

own rebellious flesh, or at that plump in-

desire

for

BRAVE NEW WORLD
carnation of turpitude writhing in the heather at his
feet.

"Kill it, kill it, kill it

.

.

."

The Savage went on

shouting.

Then suddenly somebody started singing "Orgyporgy" and, in a moment, they had all caught up
the refrain and, singing, had begun to dance. Orgyporgy, round and round and round, beating one
another in six-eight time. Orgy-porgy
It was after midnight when the last of the helicop.

.

.

ters took its flight. Stupefied by soma, and exhausted

by a long-drawn frenzy of sensuality, the Savage lay
sleeping in the heather. The sun was already high
when he awoke. He lay for a moment, blinking in
owlish incomprehension at the light; then suddenly

—

remembered everything.
"Oh, my God, my God!" He covered his eyes
with his hand.

That evening the swarm of helicopters that came
buzzing across the Hog's Back was a dark cloud ten
kilometres long. The description of last night's orgy

of atonement had been in all the papers.

"Savage!" called the first arrivals, as they alighted
from their machine. "Mr. Savage!"
There was no answer.
The door of the lighthouse was ajar. They pushed
and walked into a shuttered twilight.
it open

BRAVE NEW WORLD
Through an archway on the further side of the room
they could see the bottom of the staircase that led

up to the higher floors. Just under the crown of the
arch dangled a pair of feet.

"Mr. Savage!"
Slowly, very slowly, like two unhurried compass
needles, the feet turned towards the right; north,
north-east, east, south-east, south, south-south-west;

then paused, and, after a few seconds, turned as unhurriedly back towards the
south, south-east, east.

.

.

.

left.

South-south-west,

A new edition of a famous novel whose predictions
of the future have, in large part, come true.
With an introduction by the author.

This is the

HARPERL^CREST
LIBRARY EDITION

